When most people say what he did they are referring to the redesign because of its aesthetics and because of the new user profiles (also redesign).

It's definitely completely unrelated to my comment either way.

To err is human, to really fuck up you need a contractor ;).

Why would I need to search the menu for my favorite plate? If it's my favorite I know they have it already.

You can always calculate and cache the inverse of your prime to avoid the division.

this much headache for such a basic feature. this is why I can't give up on sublime even though I'm tempted to test vs code with every update.

I'm not knocking your link, but if you think that's incredible then [Rosetta Code](http://www.rosettacode.org/wiki/Category:Programming_Tasks) is going to blow your mind.

Wait, they broke the old api!

I love dynamic programming. It is such an easy go to tool for a large class of problems.

The problem is then when people show you a better solution (which is effectively a dp short-cut). My response is then of course "but what if I'm not clever"

But yeah, it's interesting to see different dp approaches to a common problem, as pointed out, this is much like and edit distance problem.

Couldn't agree with you more.

Thanks for the feedback, actually I am looking for a new maintainer.

I will just stick with linear scanning with my eyes :)

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8nyq8SNUTSc&amp;t=3194s

Can't mow the lawn, NP-complete

I imagine it's as shit as his games.

thanks this is full version enjoy...

What if the moon were made of green cheese?

While this is great and all the added verbosity only lends to decrease my team's ability to produce in hopes that we catch a bug. While from a purely ideological standpoint that makes a lot of sense.  But I imagine most of us work for companies and have sprint goals and competitors anything that slows my ability to develop a product has got to be worth the time.

Where I work, given our micro service heavy architecture, it happens more often then you'd think that services are swapped out for brand new ones, while keeping the interface intact. A lot of refactoring is done where you just re-implement the whole API from scratch. That's on a good day. You'd also be surprised how often new services take the place of old ones, with major breaking APIs, and everyone is forced into a migration.

Some people call that Fast Software, a play on the word for fast fashion. The idea that business needs change so quickly that software isn't actually meant to last very long, but instead it needs to be replaced over and over again given revised requirements and expectations, taking into account the learnings from prior attempts. Thus it might be better to optimize for specialized, quick delivery and prototyping rather than generic, long shell life and reusability. Especially with efforts on the latter often failing to even achieve that goal in practice.

Anyways, that was a bit of a sidestep. To address your direct reply, most of the time for me is actually spent with developers thinking about what are and how can the code be written or modified to deliver on the requirements. The requirements tend to be 70% enhancements and new features, and 30% operational (like performance or scale related) and bug fixes. Yes, the study did not address all these. It just said green field impmementation of a small program was quicker. Obviously, we'd go back to Java if we didn't think Clojure continued to make us more productive even now that we are way past the initial part.

I've got no strong evidence that static types are bad or slow you down. And I only have minor evidence that dynamic languages make initial development of small program quicker. I also have minor evidence that people tend to misjudge the productivity gains of static type systems, especially given a small program.

On top of that I have my own experience with Java, C++, C# and Clojure. 

I feel like, while it's not a lot to go by, it is more than people arguing with me in this thread. Who only have their personal experience and nothing more. Also, they did not mention what that experience was either and with what specific language, so they're not giving much info to reason with.

First from the text:

&gt; Getting clarification comments right is hard, since there is often no objectively right answer.

and as you say,

&gt; ... as if the person reading has never seen a variable declaration before.

In a learning environment one can reasonably expect the reader not to know everything and it might even be appropriate to add such a comment. "Variable declaration" might be a pretty scary term if you're new to programming so writing it down might help you remember. As an example:

    //Assign values to array
    let arr = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];

While this may seem like a redundant comment its not obvious to all students that we are "assigning" values to an "array", so while this comment can be seen as useless from a more experienced programmers point of view, if you're new and especially haven't been paying much attention in class, this comment might have some utility.

Then on the other hand in this particular case I might add that we're declaring these values inside the function because it's an example and that you would usually get these values as function parameters, but if we're at a stage where variable declaration is a new thing, it is probably not yet appropriate to be discussing that slightly more advanced concept. But if you were to add that in the comment it wouldn't be a bad thing. So the comments, when it comes to code in education, can be used as a platform for you to repeat obvious stuff just to show off to the teacher that you know what you're doing.

In fact the best comment in that particular function may be that you don't need it as you can use

    [1,2,3,4,5].reduce(function(a, b) { return a + b; });

instead. This example might even in some cases teach the teacher about the joys of functional programming but in the very least it shows that while you're capable of solving the problem, you are also a "team player", which may be an even more important thing than your raw ability to solve problems for some companies or organizations.

&gt;isn't it just simple algebra?

&gt;2 * ( i * i ) = 2i * 2i = 4i

That would be 2i^2, not 4i. You don't distribute the 2, evaluate the expression in parentheses first, then multiply by 2. Also, 2i * 2i = 4i^2, not 4i.

&gt;2 * i * i = 2i * i = 3i

Again, that is 2i^2. You don't add coefficients when multiplying.

That's a hilarious and very original joke. The article is written in American English and uses US dollar signs, and the author is from Los Angeles, so my points are valid regardless of my nationality.

I have a degree in this and I still don't get it

that's IDA

I haven't played minecraft. Does the player have to manually place all those cubes, or do they use level editor things?

You joke, but have you tried to reduce "efficiently mowing the lawn" to the traveling salesman problem? Doesn't seem hard. Bonus points: Imagine the lawn in question is a golf course.

tl;dr they shard then merge

I think it might depend on how fast you type? I type pretty fast and it the caret animation makes it feel like it's lagging behind.

Many NPM Modules already use binaries from other languages that are compiled, or downloaded in the npm package (This is one of the reasons you don't commit node_modules).

I think this is a shallow evaluation. No software is written once. No software spends its entire life maintained by one team. Readability is extremely important for the long-term viability of software. These days, competition is about how quickly you can respond to changes in the market. Developing a product with something like Ada improves not only maintainability, but also agility.

I should also mention that Ada is designed to build very large systems. This is only more relevant to mainstream software. As products grow and add more features, Ada has an amazing ability to handle that growth through exceptional encapsulation, enforced engineering principles, and unparalleled readability.

I would normally agree with you, but this looks like a culture problem rather than a technical or language problem.

As mentioned in the article, it is easy to make a rule like this, but how do you enforce it? The argument being is that Ada doesn't give a choice, it simply requires it. This is a consistent pattern throughout Ada. Another example is that case (switch) statements must always cover every possible outcome - and that is enforced by the compiler.

Yeah about that, I thought that aswell, but i is just a loop index.

Why not just:  `perl -0777 -pnle '$_=/shrimp\s+\$[0-9]\./?"Available!":":("' menu.txt` :-)

Really? I've honestly not seen posts arguing against these in a long while. They might debate their details, but they don't argue against their complete use. I also havn't seen an actual team going against these in a long time.

I acknowledge I might be completly wrong here though. So if these are being argued against, well obviously that dismisses my rationale.

Thanks for noticing that, I had decided to expand the example a bit, and didn't catch that.

Rich is a smart guy but I wish he'd learn a few basic things about the type systems he likes to rag on. He uses the type declaration of Haskell's reverse (reverse :: \[a\] -&gt; \[a\]) as an example where the types don't "communicate anything" and is "almost information-free". It tells actually quite a bit. It says that reverse is a function that takes a list of anything and returns a list of the same type but it also says that the function's logic **cannot** depend on what the **list contains**. So, it cannot for example sort them. It can only operate on the list's structure. I think that is valuable information.

I'm not sure, in this particular case (or any case really), that this is a plausible error.

&gt; Why am I paying a court some money? 

Because the application has to be researched to make sure it's unique and non-obvious to a practitioner in the art. they fail at this quite often anyway, and allow patents on things already patented.

Isn't it great that Ada allows you to focus your tests on a narrower set of unknowns? Spending less time and investing less risk?

This looks super useful. I can't wait.

Ooof... That's too bad. Just for the record, wasn't me down voting.

&gt; The whole patent process can protect if you follow the process.

Lol. It doesn't do that **AT* ***ALL***. All it gives you the right to do is spend more money suing people who violate your patent. For small players, it's nothing but a money losing uphill battle.

God, the JS comments here are pure gold!

He shows that the alternative to Maybe in Clojure is to use schema/select. For example, in Scala, you might have:

    class Car {
      make: String,
      model: Option[String],
      year: Option[Int]
    }
    
    getNewerThan(List[Car] cars, int year): List[Car] = {
      cars.filter{ c =&gt; c.year.map{y =&gt; y &gt; year} }
    }

With schema/select, you do something like:

    (s/def ::make string?)
    (s/def ::model string?)
    (s/def ::year int?)
    
    (s/def ::car (s/schema [[::make ::model ::year]]))
    
    (get-newer-than cars year =&gt;
      (s/select ::cars [s/list-of ::car {::car [::year]}])
      (filter (fn [car] (&gt; (car ::year) year)) cars))

With this approach, you don't "pollute" your car definition by saying that some things may be optional because I know in some contexts, we won't have them. Instead, you are just simply specifying what your car definition can support and then, when you need to make use of your car, because you know what you need at that time, you can specify what you need from your car. For other contexts, where you don't need to care what attributes of your care are available, you don't need to specify it nor worry about it being included. 

I think this approach is a fantastic way to achieve the goal of: let me just work on maps of data and not have to deal with place-oriented-programming while being able to specify what these things are and what I need from them when I need it.

I feel so inadequate everyone I see someone else's bash-fu.

&gt; It is also going to cost the patent holder the same amount of money to defend it.

Is *that* supposed to be some sort of consolation to the person whose invention was wrongly patented by a huge corporation?

yeah it's probably just vote fuzzing and i got my panties in a bunch :)

Oh yeah you have to do it by hand. Level editors exist, including in-game tools if you modify the client or server, but yeah it’s often done by hand in game. There is a mode with infinite blocks, flying, and instant block breaking and stuff that makes it easier in the base game.

My dream would be Globosat Play, Telecine Play and Globo Play unified (and all on Globo Play end).

No one said it was a good choir.

I wanted to start with an easy one, but it is the first of what I hope to be a long series. Heartbleed is another ripe example.

That's pushing it a little. I'm only saying that static types havn't shown a clear and undeniable benefit, and that's why we're all here arguing about it.

I'm also very interested in the topic obviously. I'm a huge fan of static type systems. I know top of the art ones like Haskell, Idris, Liquid Haskell, or simpler ones like the traditional Java, C++, C# systems, or the optional ones like Core.typed for Clojure and Typed Racket. I havn't tried TypeScript though, but if I needed to use JavaScript, I'd definitly choose to use TypeScript or Flow over ES6.

Type driven design is fun, and static guarantees are highly satisfying. But as much as I have feelings of interest and safety with regards to static type systems, I can not say they are justified, because I have no data to justify them with.

The small data I have seem to show Clojure as an outlier in the dynamic world, and that static type systems in general bring only minimal benefits in terms of defects, while having a small impact on productivity.

This leads me to the conclusion that you need to judge a language as a whole. Because many parts might each contribute more or less to productivity and safety, and it is when you sum them all that big benefits are gained or lost.

OP is not incorrect, but like /u/theoldboy I find the given example to be rather weak -- `goto fail;` could be caught using a style checker to enforce the use of braces, with the same style checker also enforcing consistent indentation and code style.

I would have liked to see more than one example for using Ada; for example, does it implement an borrow checker like Rust? Can it reduce verbose error checks (which obscure the story of the code behind repetitive bookkeeping) by allowing functions to return algebraic `Maybe&lt;&gt;` types? Does it support programming-by-contract? Can you place unit tests in the same file as a function so that test code is also the example code?

I hope this article makes headlines. The author just needs to say it's Google in the title.

I disagree. Before VS Code came along, ST3 + Package Control were fantastic competition in the not-so-big IDE space. It felt fairly snappy and functional as long as you groomed the plugins in a decent manner.   
  
Along comes a project backed by a billion dollar company that for all intents and purposes, absolutely crushes ST3 + Package Control. Absolutely. Destroys.  
  
You can say $80 is ‘too much for a text editor’, but give ST3 credit in being much more than just a text editor. Moreover it’s a user license, so it’s pretty well a one time thing.... I would guess the same argument is made against products like WinRar too which is even cheaper.  
  
I know it may seem strange to actually _pay for software that works well_ but you may want to consider it.

I think the point of Rich's quote has more to do with testing being the *emphasis* rather than design. It's not a question of types vs. tests.

&gt;Does it support programming-by-contract?

Ada was one of the first languages to do this, and remains one of the most contractual languages out there. For example, you can explicitly state Pre- and Post-conditions on all functions and procedures. You can also define static and dynamic predicates for types.

Ada uses exceptions, and does it more elegantly than Java/C++/C# by not having "try" blocks. Rust decided to avoid exceptions entirely. Ada can implement the same kind of error checking and encapsulation just as easily though. In my opinion, it is more flexible, since it allows you to contain errors at different levels without explicit code to pass errors up.

The next version of SPARK (a subset of Ada) will include borrow checking. However, this was always possible and fairly trivial in Ada through the use of limited types, which can never be copied, and through "Finalization", which allows objects to be controlled during Initialization, Adjustment (assignment), and Finalization.

My favorite discussion on how to take advantage of the cache:

MIT Cache oblivious algorithms: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSqbjfCCLrU](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSqbjfCCLrU)

Small changes to some naive programs, as well as more creative memory layouts, can make huge differences. I know it's a video, but Erik does a good job motivating everything.

I'm not really convinced that Ada is really the issue here. Lots of languages require "bracketed" if statements. Should we all use FORTRAN? Even BASIC uses this type of syntax. Really it speaks more to the failure of C than anything else

Why do they eventually want to drop support for JQuery?

Is this basically like Apache Wicket then?

What if it is a market worth 2 million?  Then it is worth it for Google as worst case they get a headstart, and are facing an opponent that has to pay 1m up front to win a 1m split of the market.

Well, as someone mentioned above, this example is (deliberately) low-hanging fruit. There is a lot more to Ada than this. It is pretty silly to compare Ada to BASIC, because Ada is a much larger language, is strongly typed, object oriented, concurrent, and extremely expressive. BASIC is none of those things. The only real thing that Ada shares with BASIC is using english words. This is true for Pascal (more fairly comparable), Simula, Smalltalk, etc back to ALGOL.

Pipelining allows the CPU to execute multiple (22 on Intel Core-i pipelines I think?) instructions/micro-ops in the same cycle. Modern CPUs are superscalar too.

1) this seems like a call for more government to solve a problem that doesn't exist yet. It's mostly a scare tactic based on hypotheticals and grandiose futuristic claims

2) Hannah Fry is a brilliant mathematician and is remarkably attractive.

Frightening, but not remotely new.  
  
The process Google tried to do was Thomas Edison's entire business model.

&gt;In terms of wide-reaching impact, the stuff that’s happened with Facebook’s Newsfeed is really, really concerning. Fifteen years ago, let’s say, all of us were watching all the same TV programs, were reading the same newspapers. The places we would get our news, and especially our politics, tended to be universal. And what that meant was that when you had a national conversation about an issue, everyone was coming to that conversation with the same information. But as soon as Facebook decided that they wanted to become purveyors of news, suddenly you have these highly personalized newsfeeds where everything is based on what your friends like, what you like, things that you’ve read in the past. And that’s become so infinitesimally cut up into tiny little chunks, that suddenly when you try and have a national conversation, people are missing each other. They’re talking about different things, even though they think they’re talking about the same thing. Even before all of this Cambridge Analytica stuff, which is a whole other level, I think there is a really serious implication on democracy and on politics. But it’s something that can happen without anybody ever being malicious or having ill intent. It’s just a totally unintended consequence of barging in somewhere without thinking through what the long-term implications of being in that space was.

It's not about hypothetical and grandiose futuristic claims. It's about what's happening right now as a result of today's algorithms.

\------

Here's the justification

&gt;**Why do we need an FDA for algorithms?**  
&gt;  
&gt;It used to be the case that you could just put any old colored liquid in a glass bottle and sell it as medicine and make an absolute fortune. And then not worry about whether or not it’s poisonous. We stopped that from happening because, well, for starters it’s kind of morally repugnant. But also, it harms people. We’re in that position right now with data and algorithms. You can harvest any data that you want, on anybody. You can infer any data that you like, and you can use it to manipulate them in any way that you choose. And you can roll out an algorithm that genuinely makes massive differences to people’s lives, both good and bad, without any checks and balances. To me that seems completely bonkers. So I think we need something like the FDA for algorithms. A regulatory body that can protect the intellectual property of algorithms, but at the same time ensure that the benefits to society outweigh the harms.  
&gt;  
&gt;**Why is the regulation of medicine an appropriate comparison?**  
&gt;  
&gt;If you swallow a bottle of colored liquid and then you keel over the next day, then you know for sure it was poisonous. But there are much more subtle things in pharmaceuticals that require expert analysis to be able to weigh up the benefits and the harms. To study the chemical profile of these drugs that are being sold and make sure that they actually are doing what they say they’re doing. With algorithms it’s the same thing. You can’t expect the average person in the street to study Bayesian inference or be totally well read in random forests, and have the kind of computing prowess to look up a code and analyze whether it’s doing something fairly. That’s not realistic. Simultaneously, you can’t have some code of conduct that every data science person signs up to, and agrees that they won’t tread over some lines. It has to be a government, really, that does this. It has to be government that analyzes this stuff on our behalf and makes sure that it is doing what it says it does, and in a way that doesn’t end up harming people.

&amp;#x200B;

This is a disappointingly little amount of content from 3 weeks of learning

The innovation since PHP-based web apps of the 2000s has been to create the notion of persistent page state, which is updated by events. When Ajax was invented, the page state lived on the web client, and I think that was a revelation to all those people who tried to create component frameworks server side, but got bogged down by having to carry so much state in form hiddens from request to request because every little detail had to be recreated. With Ajax, you no longer had to do that.

The innovation given by React seems to be to use some diffing mechanism to rapidly discover the parts of page that are different, and focus any expensive operations only to the changed parts. While, say, Wicket, had the concept of server-side state in the 2000s, the notion of directly diffing the page state on server side was beyond the framework, and so the programmer had to tag the components that changed due to an event, and wicket would render those and send back the entire HTML for them.

I really appreciate the straightforward nature of the framework. While I personally am not excited about switching back to server-side HTML rendering, and probably won't ever go back to doing things that way, at least these days it's not that bad compared to doing things client side. The higher latency of anything server side pushes the desire to do more work on the client side, but on the other hand, the client side needs to keep the download size in control, which is challenging as apps grow ever more features.

You either get this data from mainly cached sources like the Skyscanner API ( with limitations), illegally scrape some OTAs like Expedia ( and probably get blocked), or get your data from a GDS ( very expensive ).

Inventory changes in real time, and beside a monthly fee, the GDS usually charges per scan/search.
( Google fights used to have an API, at 3 cents per scan, but they closed)

So whatever site you find, will eventually block you if you don't actually book/buy something.

For a monthly fee, I can provide you the data ( have a system that does this, mainly used by b2b travel agencies), but for free, it's unlikely you will find something useful for more than a flight or two.

what tutorials did you use for this?

Fortran 

* Is as object-oriented as C++. Classes, polymorphism, operator overloading.
* Has an elegant array notation that is great for scientific work.
* Arrays can start at any lower bound. Not just 0 or 1: any.
* Has a pointer concept that is more like C++ references than C addresses. Elegant notation.
* Had a notion of deallocation of dynamic data years before C++ shared/unique pointers.
* Modules are better than header files; C++ is about to catch up with Fortran in that respect in a couple of years.

Yeah, there is a lot of old Fortran code out there which uses constructs that should not be used anymore, but that goes for C++ too. You want to know how often I see "auto\_ptr" fly past when I install packages?

Removing jQuery has basically been on their list since 2.x days.

In the vanilla game, you have to manually place each block (but in Creative Mode you can fly in any direction and don't have to fight enemies and such). 

There are mods that make reshaping the terrain easier, as well as unofficial external level editors

&gt; The next version of SPARK (a subset of Ada) will include borrow checking. However, this was always possible and fairly trivial in Ada through the use of limited types, which can never be copied, and through "Finalization", which allows objects to be controlled during Initialization, Adjustment (assignment), and Finalization.

I have always mentioned that to various people seeking comparisons with Rust. Which makes it the lesser important feature of the next release of Ada (2020?). The more important one is lightweight tasks a la Golang and Erlang.

&gt; Also had a personal blog, intubo.com on which I released two demos, one in flash (2009) and one WebGL, when it was in aplha (2010), both around editable streaming sparse voxel world. The second was featured on Khronos website. Next thing you know, minecraft alpha is released (2011). 

To be fair, Notch has explicitly said that Minecraft was basically a copy of [Infiniminer](https://youtu.be/JlSIbbAu088?t=84), which was released in 2009.

Interesting... Would like to see some of those more complicated examples.

That's a misunderstanding. The downloadable reference implementation of BLAS/LAPACK is written in Fortran, but any optimized version (MKL, Atlas, Blis) is written in C.

Tooling. Have a program autoformat it for you on commit.

Honestly, they probably still have questions about the topic but don't know how to ask what is bothering them.  When that happens, try answering in a different or more in-depth way, or ask clarifying questions yourself.

Do you think Facebooks response to it has been bad? Certainly they've responded to the claims above. 

More generally, how much control over sources of news do you think the government should control? Controlling Facebook news: good? Trump kicking Jim Acosta out of the press room: bad? I generally dont like the idea of government controlling the press or news distribution in anyway.

you just triggered my imposter syndrome

Oh yeah, I'm aware that every person has their own path to walk down. Glad it worked out for you! :-)

But why use tooling if your languages does it for you?

reason, a libertarian rag for people who can't reason

I started doing this when I got my first job. Far less chance anybody makes a mistake and it ends up more readable in my eyes. Then again I'm a freak who makes whitespace always visible.

I think you're trying to portray me like a zealot, but that's just a complete misrepresentation.

I use an array of languages, and I would use statically typed languages in certain situations. I'd also use dynamic ones. It's the pro static type evangelists that are the real zealots. I mean look at the OP's comment that started this whole thread:

&gt; you're still smart enough to know that using a type system has advantages

How disingenuous and disrespectful is this comment? That's the sign of a true zealot to me.

You mention Nim, Rust and Idris. Okay, which one do you want to discuss? Or are you just ignoring the comment I replied too arguing that static type evangelists always promote the union of the benefits of all typed languages?

You want to talk about Idris? Okay, I love Idris. I'm a huge fan of Idris, Liquid Haskell, and F*. Neither are in a state where I can realistically bring them to my team and depend on them commercially. They also bring a pretty big overhead in terms of productivity, but that could just be me still getting a better grip with them.

What about Nim? I mean, Nim, really? Its type system is nowhere the same league as Idris and Rust, I'm confused why you bring it up? It also has a garbage collector. So what about Nim?

Alright, Rust is my second favourite language currently after Clojure. Static memory guarantees are a whole other ballgame. When I need critical performance, Rust is my go to. Obviously I wouldn't build a browser in Clojure.

&gt; ignoring the experience of others

How am I ignoring it? If you have system programming experience, well, I can't even think of a single system level language without static types. C might be the closest in that it doesn't particularly have a very powerful one. But like why are we even arguing in this case. Go use Rust or stick with C.

If you come from a JavaScript background, and find your code to be brittle, find a better language. Maybe TypeScript, I havn't used it, but I do know its type system is unsound. So why not Bucklescript and OCaml, or ClojureScript? And if you were using Node, and care about safety and now security too, just don't. Use the JVM, or the CLR, or the Beam, or GHC, or Go.

My point being, judge a whole language for the sum of its parts. Realize that many things matters. If you had a bad experience with X, and X lacked types, don't think the lack of types was the entire root cause. If you had a bad experience  with Y, and Y had types, don't think types were the entire root cause.

And to that, I'm arguing Clojure as a whole is a really productive and mostly safe language. Much more productive and safer than many statically typed languages.

Do you think private corporations should be able to manipulate people in order to suit their own private interests without any oversight?

Haven't really done much ios development, but could you get around this with testflight? or do you still need to pay the 100/year just to be a dev?

Yes. That's basically guaranteed by the first amendment. What about yourself? Do you think the Trump administration should be given more oversight and control of CNN, MSNBC and the Huffington Post?

of course moving to go from node.js would seem great...

Indeed, I look forward to the discussion here in the blast furnace to help inform me on what might be a more impactful avenue to go down for the next post.

Can't believe people are trying to downvote you. It's blatantly obvious that you're right.

You people care more about syntax sugar than performance. Go write Python/js, and wait 10 years to do anything. I'll keep writing Java and c++, meaning my code actually fi is he's running before the start of the next century.

I know... I'm asking if they're averaging it to get less than one.

Eat out? I eat baked chicken with frozen vegetables. Like I have every day for 40 years. 

Flavor? What do I look like, a GUI programmer?

Bootstrapping does very often forbid a pre-made *binary* of the product you're building. The purpose for this is ensuring binary trustworthiness. You can't do that if you use a binary blob compiler.

What the JVM does and how it works is irrelevant.

http://bootstrappable.org/

Definitely the parallel keyword is something to watch-out for in Ada 2020!

It’s a fairly basic concept, so I’m not saying they stole it. Even if they did steal it from me, it’s not like I was going to develop it in a full blown game, release it and whatnot.   

Even theory of relativity was developed independently by two unrelated guys at the same time. 

I find it funny, though, that it happened three times to me, before the age of 30, and programming was just a hobby for me at the time.

So true. This has become so *obvious* to me over time that I can't understand why it's not common knowledge between senior devs and still there's experts out there pitching flexibility, genericness, reusability, with not a word on simplicity, and they seem convinced that layers and layers of abstraction and indirection is "good design".

Controversial and gold...the perfect combo

&gt;FORTRAN still doesn't have adequate abstractions

Seriously? What is wrong with classes in Fortran? You can even overload your operators so that a physicist can write "u+v" where u and are vector fields, and nicely get the sum. If that's not an abstraction I don't know what is.

Two reasons:

1. it‘s not a requirement for web dev anymore. JQuery became big because it brought a standard into a system where every browser was different to the next. This is no longer the case, plain JS is fine since a good while now.
2. Overhead. JQuery‘s too big compared to just writing code that‘s a bit more verbose.

Ooh that’s cool

1.  A complete lack of morals/principles. 

End of list.

&gt;this piece of shit code

Is completely misunderstood by you.

Also, the fact that you can break out of a loop nest by naming the loops is elegant. I think.

Billion dollar companies are running on this "toy" language. I don't even like Java, but what you are saying is silly.

Ya, I was joking, but I totally support the research in that area and respect everyone pushing the envelope.

The only benefit currently of dynamic types is their convenience honestly. They just get out of your way. Static type systems still limit the realm of valid programs, or sacrifice safety. And they kind of get in your way a bit. 

But, I've personally found that, type errors are rare and caught early, quickly fixed, and generally have low impact.

That's why dependant types are an area of research now, because the more harmful bugs are functional in nature, or they're memory related, or security related. Practical type systems don't yet cover those though.

I'm aware of a few alternatives. Runtime contracts are one, popular in Clojure obviously and what Rich talks about in this talk.

Generative and Fuzz testing are another. Also popular in Clojure. 

Interactivity is another. This one is harder to grasp, but the ability to see the effect of your programs almost in realtime, and change propagate quickly helps a lot with functional correctness. So things like live programming, repl driven workflows, automated test runners on code change, etc.

There's also runtime monitors/managers, not sure how to call it. But basically runtimes like garbage collectors, process supervisors, etc. The idea is that you have running programs monitor running programs for issues, and possibly have them perform recovery tasks for you. This would also include container software, auto scaling systems, serverless, etc. Even simple metric management like New Relic.

Unit, End to end, load and scale tests are another.  Some of those are very targeted, but they can help a lot in improving the quality of software. Especially load and scale tests, I don't know of many other ways to lower these kind of defects. 

There's also safer code constructs. Things like immutability, iterators, safe pointers, pure functions, if/else, pattern matching, etc. Imagine still having to use goto for any kind of loop or control flow? That's an easy way to add accidental defects into your code. 

Might be others, honestly, software is complex, in my experience defects are reduced when you take a multi-lateral approach and combine many of these techniques together.

[Original afaik, pdf](http://www-scf.usc.edu/~csci201/lectures/Lecture11/royce1970.pdf)

If you read with intent, you will find that **even then** people knew about iterations, feedback loop, testing, customer involvement...

What clueless management put in place was the very beginning, for which paper says "risky and invite failure".

Edit: I did not come up with what I am telling you. If you google further, you will see people basically defending Waterfall as the "original Agile". If you think about it, it's obvious: making software has innate nature and practitioners understood it early on. But management? Not to this day (which is why today we see moaning about how Agile is awful).

It's only in C++ that they are almost the same. In Fortran there definitely is a difference. I imagine that there are more languages where they are not practically the same.

Well said

So what you're calling side effects ( just trying for clarity ) is all through the "path" variable? Doesn't all that just need to be encapsulated? 

Sorry; I'm ignorant of Scala. 

Having a monad-like thing that hides state and accepts messages to modify state is not too foul-smelling a practice, IMO.

Those building analogies... This is how bs devlopers explain stuff to management. We used java that is why we have plumbing! Pointless numerous wrapper layers are insulation etc.

&gt;knowing when to use LAPACK and when to use BLAS

Since the two packages have zero routines in common that choice should be easy.

Presumably anybody could implement the server-side spec, but obviously it's a lot easier to do with phoenix.

&gt; clowns using interview opportunities as a way to bootstrap their development efforts? 

How could that possibly work for them?

It's pretty justified hype.  Being able to run your app immediately in a clean, reproducable environment that mirrors a fresh production system and is isolated from other developers is extremely useful.  There are other ways to get there, but most of them are a lot slower to develop and run then docker.

Great. Now there's going to end up being a Supreme  Court ruling on the existence of free will... 

( I'm being tongue in cheek, but if free will doesn't exist, then it's all nature... )

The last group I want regulating anything is the FDA. At best, they take years of waiting and require a billion dollars in testing, per drug approval, and they are still wrong sometimes. I don’t want to wait that long or pay that much to make or use a new algorithm. Even if they prevented a harmful algorithm, they would prevent the propagation of dozens of good algorithms in the process.

One with a keyboard?

All hype can be justified by some sound bite. That's what makes the hype.

The key is OP did not see any use for it, but he still forced himself to learn it ...... just because?

Nah. Understanding the layers beneath only makes understanding the layers above simpler since your brain doesn't have to make so many assumptions about things it doesn't yet understand. Building a house with proper foundations is much faster than trying to balance everything precariously.

I have a saying I like to use: Abstractions are only useful when you already understand the stuff that underpins that abstraction.

Sometimes, I feel like I could write a book about this and exploited business practices. Business use the word developer vs engineer because they’re cheaper to hire. Monster companies like Facebook and google releasing micro managed “OSS” frameworks so developers are more abundant and cheaper. “Full stack” because a medium sized company literally has no idea the breadth of the fields and why hire more than one when it’s “cheaper”.

I started with a 6510 on a C64, but I really spent a lot more time working on the 68000 in my A500. Writing assembly was almost a pleasure there.

&gt;Yes. That's basically guaranteed by the first amendment. What about yourself?

I don't believe corporations are people and thus the first amendment shouldn't apply to them. I also wouldn't consider a product to be speech.

&gt;Do you think the Trump administration should be given more oversight and control of CNN, MSNBC and the Huffington Post?

I think the FCC should reinstate it's fairness doctrine that "required the holders of broadcast licenses both to present controversial issues of public importance and to do so in a manner that was honest, equitable, and balanced". The FCC eliminated the policy in 1987 and broadcast news has certainly become much worse since then.

that's some sleazy shit. :(

Sounds like a plan to decrease productivity and increase profit margins much like the pharmaceutical industry.

Idealistic nonsense written by people who’ve never actually been in the position. You won’t have time to be the perfect manager for everyone.  Most of the time you’ll be dealing with politics and people problems while at the same time handling massive amounts of administrative tasks.   You’re not dealing with NPC’s who respond perfectly and predictably either.

This is basically the same as server-side Blazor (now known as Razor Components). 

Having worked on large-scale systems both with client-side JS libraries and fully server-side... it's so much better when all the code is on the server. The temptation to do too much crap on the client is contagious and difficult to persuade hordes of lowly skilled developers out of making an unmanageable mess...

Still at the mercy of the compiler. Next version of GCC comes along and whoops! It kills your optimization, or whoops! the more general, less hand optimised, version of the code you wrote initially is actually faster since the compiler devs have done more black magic.

Higher level languages are less prone to "optimisation rot": the process whereby the relative speed of code written in it decreases compared to other languages. This is because compilers are always becoming smarter, and the more abstraction information you can give the compiler, the more it can make use of it.

Example: C used to absolutely destroy JavaScript. Nowadays... Sure, it's still faster. But for a small inner loop with a shitload of invariants... Not by much at all. Google's V8 is more than capable of turning a maths-based loop into machine code that runs at least as fast as C.

If I was a betting person, I'd say "keep an eye on Rust". It's the language that, at the moment, seems to have the richest type/invariant system while still having a focus on zero cost optimisations. It's likely that idiomatic Rust code will become significantly faster than idiomatic C in the future.

rEaL pRoGrAmMeRs OnLy UsE x86 AsSeMbLy

If you're arguing for rewriting all microservices, you have to ask yourself why the fuck you bothered to decouple your application.

&gt; Server-rendered

Eugh.

Dunno why you're getting downvoted; there might be one gem in that library but the large majority were utter garbage. Games like Reader Rabbit and Outnumbered were not only on the scene sooner but more entertaining AND actually taught me how to read/do math.

I think fundamentally the problem does exist now, however.  
  
Not that I want to be a crackpot anti-capitalist, but..in theory every service wants to deliver maximum happiness/satisfaction/utility to its users.  The string attached today is that it's measured by profits, how well the user likes the service (even if it isn't the service's problem!), and overall user retention.  
  
In other words, the product and the idea is valued in a way that favors its existence as a revenue generator that enriches its backers rather than for its potential role in a healthy society.  I wish I could say otherwise, but it seems like society (in the form of users) continues to lose out everytime a company is forced to have an identity crisis over one controversy or another--and resolve it by changing their services to meet the controversy instead of recognizing that they can't satisfy every member of their market, and some problems are simply so hard that they have an ongoing cost.   See: Tumblr (and by proxy, Apple)
  
Edit:  consider the search engine "problem" recently highlighted by Google returning results relevant to a certain politician's deeds and perceived standing in the world.  The problem itself is very simple to understand-- Google, the service, is extremely good at what it does.  But in this case the service did not work in the context that the politician expected, a clear mismatch with how Google works.  But that is also the problem in a nutshell--Google's search services operate in the context of what Google deems best.  Which makes sense...it's a private service!  
  
But if anything this should highlight the importance of technology developed for and freely available to the public.  We live in a society that functions on Google-level technology, but functionally have no capacity (leadership-wise, anyways) to provide those services at a level that serves the public interests.

That could very well be true of your experience. There's a hidden truth about programming languages people also tend not to admit. They are personal, and they don't all work well for everyone. That's why there are so many of them, a lot even having identical features just packaged differently. 

I'm sure there's a saying for this, maybe something like: Every chef has its favorite knife? Just made it up, but it expresses my point 🤣

What irks me are evangelists: "Static types and nothing less." Like, get out of here. 

There's been devs who didn't like Clojure at my work. Generally, it's the ones who aren't offered a lot of mentorship, but not all. Some just don't like it. That's fine.

I know some people struggle more with data flow and types than me. In which case, Clojure would be pretty painful. It doesn't give you many tools to help with that. It does seem to attract experienced devs in general too. So I wonder if there comes a point where what you need from your language shifts.

Me for example, I really prefer Clojure over C++ (though I love C++ too, but more as a masochistic experience). And I always tried to like OCaml, but there's things i just can't get over. Maybe ReasonML addresses them, but I havn't tried it yet.

Because why hire two people when you can hire one? I hear full stack surgeon and doctor is going to be trending in the medical space next.

that's a good hill to die on, if you are  going to use an OCaml(ish) language.

There is no download page on the mobile website, it is on PC website.

&gt; But if you're thinking about data layout and branch prediction you're pretty much throwing away most abstractions.

Things certainly become very leaky at that point. But I wouldn't say you lose most abstractions.

&gt; on some of these documents seems like Illustrator or LaTeX or whatever generated these documents is intentionally obfuscating the data. 

On every report I've ever generated with Latex, whenever I try to copy text out of my pdf to use somewhere else (say to paste an abstract into a submission form), anywhere the characters "fl" occur together gets dropped from the pasted text. This is extremely annoying when you are writing a fluid dynamics report/article and use the words "flow" and "fluid" etc. all over the place.

&gt; Yes. Generally everything you "create" while in the employ of someone belongs to them -- because they so state in their employment agreement.

Well, considering this was in an impromptu meetup-turned-interview, that point isn't really relevant.

&gt; I've never seen image scans. From my experience

..exactly which restaurants have you been to... Because this doesn't really jive with anyone else's reality...

I though typing program source code is a pro job. But I am wrong! lol

You have to concede that a SPA that hits the server for data requests is less prone to this than one that hits the server for UI events.

Given how ridiculously simple and parallel the circuitry for a bit shift actually is, I find this hilarious.

well, most languages don't. I was merely answering this question:

&gt; As mentioned in the article, it is easy to make a rule like this, but how do you enforce it?

Yes, that's what I realized later. But apparently an apology doesn't cut it anymore these days. Thanks for pointing it out though; the other 200 dicks that pointed it out didn't make it perfectly clear already. But you did! I finally got it.

Not sure I really understand what you are implying here. Ada is an open, ISO standard (one of the few that is also free to download). The GCC Ada compiler (GNAT) is GPL, but the FSF version contains the standard run-time exception. I also note that Ubuntu and family have FSF GNAT packages that include the newest GCC 8. It also readily cross-compiles to all typical systems like mingw, darwin, \*BSD, Solaris/illumos, etc.

I subscribed here for programming related content, and not "compiler bugs" (even though this is just some fault in in the JVM, not even a bug but a "feature"). 

This has nothing to do with programming, this is a JVM optimization issue only relevant to Java. It's not even a real computing issue, it's an issue with the Java VM runtime which is fixable by software.

I wish we had tags to tag this as "Java" or "VM Language" or Language specific".

Then who watches the watchman? ;)

The possibility of integer overflow means that the two operations are not identical, AFAIK.

The one place I'll leave off braces is if the entire if statement is only one line. As in,

    if (condition) do_something();

You should put that on a t-shirt

a new version of java w/out yet one more new date/time class??

shocked

&gt; Prior art doesn't work like that. its first to file. If the so called prior art isn't a patent then it doesn't count.

Holy shit, that's so unbelievably incorrect that it hurts.

In a case where there is no prior art from the legal perspective, i.e. published in journals, released to customers, shown at a trade show, etc., then in the case where two patents are up for review for the same invention, whoever filed first wins.

If it worked the way you just said, there would be literally nothing stopping every patent troll in the world from just looking for un-patented commercial products, getting the patent, and then extorting the companies in question.

It provide a convenient way to use the regular expression, and enhance the regular expression in some way. You can extract text using regex, and store them in arrays for later usage etc.

&gt; A patent lawyer doesn't care who invented first.

They absolutely fucking do.

If it comes out that you filed for a patent and knowingly left out inventors, then the whole damn patent can be invalidated.

It's an expensive thing to fix, too. I should know, because I've been such an inventor accidentally left off an application.

So basically a solution applicable to a pretty limited niche for which there are already a bunch of viable and mature solutions?

That's why it has JAVA in the title.

Don't like it? Don't click it. Skip it. Move on.

But no, you had to come and complain. Hope you feel better now it's off your chest!

&gt; underpins one of the fundamental problems

The problem is that folks come to stack overflow looking for solutions to problems they don't have. It honestly sounds like the SO OP just wanted help on some homework assignment from a misguided professor.

&gt; The second answer is the correct one

The second question doesn't answer anything. It just says "You can find text patterns with regex I Did it once"

https://meta.stackexchange.com/questions/66377/what-is-the-xy-problem Telling the questioner that they are asking an incorrect question (parse html vs find text patterns with regex) is a healthy practice and part of the learning experience.

On some broad level, this is similar to csvkit, but a core design principle is that the toolkit is very light, and wraps standard tools. So you get power, performance and a VERY friendly learning curve.

Just curious, how much do you think is it's actual worth ?

&gt; Thanks for pointing it out though; the other 200 dicks that pointed it out didn't make it perfectly clear already. But you did! I finally got it.

While we're pointing out things that seem obvious... When you comment on your own post, you risk that comment being voted to the top, and people responding to your comment before reading all the other replies to your post.

I see your construction metaphor, and raise you a toolbox metaphor.

Happens when you're dealing with "software architects."

Their only solution is rebuilding bottom-to-top from scratch. Iterative development doesn't exist in their vocabulary.

Typescript and tslint have a lot of options. You can enforce maximum strictness, in which case it will be more strict than C# or Java. Languages with nullable everything seem pretty weak in comparison.

unaligned loads have negligible penalty on newer cpus that is correct.

It appears to me that the requirements were wrong not the architecture. If you wanted insulation, electricity, running water, etc then it should have been specified.

If the shift is going to cause an overflow, then so is the multiply.  Though, IIRC, java would thrown an exception on the multiply but not on the shift?

&gt; Human society has a long tradition of designing and applying systems and technologies to limit the effects of our own inherent weaknesses. An early example is double-entry accounting; a system who's basic function is to catch common errors, and is more than 700 years old

No problem, let's use ADA in 700 years 😂😂😂

On a more serious note, it's about the maturity of the field. Software is **way** too young a field. We don't know good practices or tools.

On a related note, we are constantly blind-sided by all sorts of eye candy and brain candy, that's distracting.

That's true, though proto3 has it's own set of problems, it does solve quite a few too.

Because both of them are addressing problems I'm supposed to have (but I'm not sure that I do) and both are on opposite sides of the spectrum - GraphQL tries to minimize the size and number of requests and Razor Components behave as though there's no cost to them.

And while I'm sure both of them have _some_ uses, I'm skeptical that either of them are aimed at solving any _real_ problems the average user has. It sounds more like they're aimed at developers who hate this or that part of modern web development (Javascript or REST).

&gt; Do you even know what's memory management 

Look, I'm going to answer you politely, but I'll stop if you continue with these disrespectful comments. 

Prior to Rust, garbage collectors were the defacto standard for managing memory in a safer way. They incur a runtime cost though, and can still leak around OS resources. It's been a while now though since their overhead hasn't been problematic due to more powerful hardware and increase in memory, for most use cases.

The use case is key in the comment that you quoted from me. Everyone who could afford to pay the runtime overhead of a GC did. One group that still struggle to this day with the overhead are system level programmers, because a lot of their use case still target weaker hardware with limited memory.

The reason people who could afford to pay that overhead transitioned to a GC, is because it brings them extra safety and productivity. They can no longer forget to free memory, thus safer code, and no longer need to write code to manage memory, thus more productive.

If you need raw performance though, which is often the case for system level programming, you can't make that trade. Thus you accept the additional challenge of writing memory safe code, and take the additional decrease in productivity from it, in exchange for performance.

Rust promesses to get rid of that tradeoff. It says:

&gt; Performance, Safety, Productivity ... Pick three. 

But the way the tagline is written, I feel like it insinuates that prior to Rust, the reason people only picked two of those was because they weren't smart enough. Like I'm not coding my backend service in C because I just don't have the skillset to write C code. Where it's simply because it didn't make sense to use C when I can afford to have a GC.

Code reviews. Diffs still show up in your pull requests.

Well, it looks like in the first expression you're doing 1 operation with 2 imaginary numbers to get a real number (i * i=-1) and multiplying that number by another real (2 * -1=-2), while the second expression involves 2 operations involving imaginary numbers(2 * i=2i &amp; 2i * i=-2. Notice the first expression has 1 imaginary number while the second has 2 imaginary numbers. That's 3 imaginary numbers the compiler needs to deal with). Maybe it takes longer to do calculations with imaginary numbers than real numbers.

I guess your account is deleted for obvious reasons, so I'm yelling at the clouds probably, but man this is a fucking thoughtless and ignorant statement. For the most part, computer code is text based and not "visual". The tools that YOU may use are visual, but there are other means of manipulating text and getting feedback that can be just as efficient, and perhaps moreso given that visually impaired folks won't be as distracted by the sheer volume of eye-fuckery driven by the ad tech industry when interacting with the online world.

What?

Do note, this is not an alternative to JavaScript. This is an alternative to you writing JavaScript. You're still shipping a JS dom-diffing rendering solution to the client, just with the template-to-instruction-set part being done server-side.

Yeah, but it leaves you with so fewer people to blame.

It gets better every day...

See [this issue](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/24637) and the links within for more detailed info.

On the plus side, it does disable Windows Updates.

Sounds like a lot more work than just using a language that doesn't rely on this.

So *you're* the guy who always goes and asks my dumb questions two years before I need the answer, ensuring I don't have to wait around!

Linters can enforce this.

Your point is more "it's best that language does it", I guess, and you're right if so.

Edit: what's said in the adjacent thread 😁😁😁

Disclaimer: never did Ada in my life.

python is 4 years older than javascript and even java

The software industry has been around since at least the 1950s, I'd hardly call that immature. The problem is that everyone is constantly inventing tools instead of just using the tools to move on. Everyone is discovering functional programming, even though that was been around since the 60-70s. Machine learning has been around for longer.

Ada is mature, hell it is older than me, but it has been continually and updated through a through and disciplined process. It works. It is proven. Can't we just make use of it and stop screwing around making new languages to solve problems that have already been solved?

To me it sounds the opposite. Changing languages just to fix formatting issues is overkill. Compare it to adding tooling to your commit hook and have people point out in code reviews if something goes wrong with it. We've been using such a hook for several years and I had it mess up code once in that whole time, and I noticed it myself before pushing the code.

Honestly, I'm not trying to argue. I simply wanted to communicate a piece of information about a study that showed static type systems gave people a strong feeling of enhanced productivity, while actually taking them longer to finish the task. I also mentioned it was a single small study, and it was a small task.

Take this information and process it as you want.

I'm neither a static or dynamic type advocate. I love languages on both side of that spectrum. I just don't like it when one sided unbalanced opinions are being posted online about the topic, such as the one from OP that I initially replied too. Which made a personal attack to people's intelligence.

That's 70 years, compared to hundreds or even thousands for other fields of work.

My guess is that squaring a value is quicker than multiplying two arbitrary numbers. Multiplying any number by 2 involves a nothing more than a bit shift provided you don't care about the carry flag.   A trivial problem for an optimizing compiler to figure out.

As a (currently and unfortunately) hobbyist programmer who learnt every online over the past 5 years, I find it a very, very strange thought to start a project without version control. From day dot I was putting code up on GitHub and using Git, it was one of the first things I learnt even before I knew the basics of programming.

The name could be a problem for some with LibreOffice installed though:

`$ which uno`

`/usr/lib64/libreoffice/program/uno`

This, a million times.

The industry needs more people who understand this point.

The whole flexibility biznis was sold to companies by consultants who would profit from creating a complex (convoluted) system that only they can understand.

I have to deal with an "architect" 9-to-5 programmer on my team who insists on having wrapper layers between every piece of the application (including duplicate data structure wrappers), who's now blaming me for delaying the project after pushing onto me the whole work of connecting the poorly matching wrappers with the actual working code. I'm just going to delete the whole pile of junk instead.

The article contains this quote explaining why:

&gt; Lowe's listings clarify a few things: first, he has not tested any of these disks, and second, owning these disks is not the same as owning the legal rights to freely or commercially distribute their contents. "Realize that, while you’ll have my data as of the day of Larry 1’s creation, you will not own the intellectual property rights to the game, the code, the art, or anything else," Lowe says in the LSL1 listing. "Nor do I. The IP rights were sold over and over again, until they are now owned by a German game company."

EDIT: The deleted parent comment asked, essentially, "why is he selling this when he could be open-sourcing it?". Why the parent deleted him comment... I don't know. This is neither the first nor last time someone on reddit would learn the answer to the question by reading the article.

Seems neat for the simple end of the requirements spectrum, which arguably covers most of the enterprise-y applications. Two main concerns for me are

* at what latency / internet spottiness does this break down at, and

* how screwed are you when requirements take you outside the comfort zone? Like adding dynamic charts, or listening to gyroscope events.

Scary. We need to be careful when sharing our work.

How is it that this comment is dumb in the same way most of your comments are, but it doesn't use the same words?

So much fun exactly this, then answers plain wrong.  
Is broccoli a small tree?
No, it's a part of a plant, it is flower bud but not a tree.  
Maybe it's a kind of tree?  
Actually it's a colony of small evil aliens whose goal is to ruin supper.  Just joking it's tree poo in fact and so on... So much fun.

I mean the implication here is that the operations, small they may be, would need to be repeated at such frequency to where performance was a realistic concern. That’s common in industry stuff where things scaled beyond expectation.

At the processor level, multiplication can be very inconsistent on execution times.    

For instance 47\*2  is much faster to execute than 2\*47

&amp;#x200B;

47\*2 can be performed with a single operation (Arithmetic Shift Left).  Literally shifting left multiplies by two.  

2\*47, on the other hand, takes 11 ASLs and 4 additions. This is to say 

2\*47=2\*(32+15)=

2\*32+2\*15=

2\*(2\*2\*2\*2\*2)+2\*15=

2\*(2\*2\*2\*2\*2)+2(8+7)=

2\*(2\*2\*2\*2\*2)+2\*8+2\*7=

2\*(2\*2\*2\*2\*2)+2\*(2\*2\*2)+2\*7=

2\*(2\*2\*2\*2\*2)+2\*(2\*2\*2)+2\*(4+3)=

2\*(2\*2\*2\*2\*2)+2\*(2\*2\*2)+2\*4+2\*3=

2\*(2\*2\*2\*2\*2)+2\*(2\*2\*2)+2\*(2\*2)+2\*3=

2\*(2\*2\*2\*2\*2)+2\*(2\*2\*2)+2\*(2\*2)+2\*(2+1)=

2\*(2\*2\*2\*2\*2)+2\*(2\*2\*2)+2\*(2\*2)+2\*2+2=

Should have used verified programming even. Doesn't compile until you prove it's correct.

I’m guessing you quoted the wrong fragment, or perhaps I didn’t make my position clear, but I am in fact arguing in favor of type systems. In other words I think the trade off of constraining expression space to enable greater reasoning at the level of types is a worthwhile one in most (but perhaps not all) scenarios. 

To your second point, I agree. Sometimes it feels as if the type system is hampering your ability to express an idea you “know” is right, often because it is... by design! To this I have two remarks. 

First, remember that this isn’t a matter of power. Due to Turing equivalence, there is always an escape hatch to do what you want to do by merely subverting the type system in some way. The trade off is, by definition, that you lose safety for the parts of the code that you “hide” from the type checker. 

Second, such hacks are usually not necessary because for almost every semantically valid but logically unsound program you may want to express, there is usually a logically sound analog. It may require reworking the problem space a bit (type Tetris as it’s sometimes referred), but it nevertheless allows you to recover the incredibly valuable property of soundness. 

Finally, it’s important to keep in mind that the degree to which expression space is constrained lives on a continuum. Specifically it is proportional to the expressive power of the type system in question. Languages like C are static but are very inexpressive at the level of types. Conversely, languages like Haskell and it’s dependently types cousins Coq, Idris, etc are maximally expressive and therefore make it possible to type far more programs while maintaining soundness. Of course there are still provably error free programs that these systems make challenging to express, but practically speaking those live as limit edge cases of things you’re likely to need, and as mentioned there is often an analogous form that can be natively expressed.

Any non-trivial solution eventually grows to become complicated.

Good architecture anticipates and prepares for complication and thereby helps to make it manageable.

It also doesn't actually add complication, though it may depend upon adding some boiler plate code and developers who are actually literate to read code instead of just write it.

&gt;Thomas Edison's entire business model.

[Family Guy did it](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gu5ffdGvBCw)

Doesn't this imply that your typing speed is the bottleneck? I seriously doubt that it is.

I daresay that if typing speed is even close to being the bottleneck, you aren't thinking about your code nearly enough.

Where did I say they don't exist?  I said each has its place and usefulness.

Get rid of semi colon line terminators and that makes a lot of sense. But with them the language lacks any enforcement.

I think you have to lay a significant amount of the blame at the feet of the Chocolaty people (who made Boxstarter). I get it, from the JS people's perspective, it was a "package" and therefore was safe, well-tested, and well-supported (because why wouldn't a package be?), but this pile of dung was a team effort.

It also doubles the line count,  which is why I don't use it. Especially in languages where dead code detection prevents this specific error.

It's possible. But not officially supported. See:

https://github.com/google/flutter-desktop-embedding

That was 5 years ago. I could not get how it fits any of my use cases. So I dropped it. Now, 5 years later, I figured out a use case that would be a great fit, learnt again how Docker works, and used it. And it serves me very well, much better than other solutions I previously used. If that's hype wagon for you or "I forced myself to use it", so be it!

Okay, that's interesting, I havn't seen someone professionally not writing tests in a while. I'm genuinely curious to know how that is working out. You make it sound like its going pretty well. Can I ask what's the specific language you're using and how big the code base is?

What do you mean by ”I think actual flexible code is typically the result of factoring out common elements of working systems”? Could you give an example?

That's actually a great idea that I'll never do. But thanks for the chuckle!

While lasagna pattern is a thing, there is good argument to be made that *sometimes* some of the extra layers exist for consistency with code where they are actually needed.

By being consistent, the code becomes more predictable and therefore easier (even if somewhat more laborious) to maintain.

For example, I worked on a project where to fetch any data from the database, we needed to call the repo which would delegate to a dao and then send the data back wrapped in a DTO.  So, any time the model needed to be revised, we needed to touch (or create!) at least 3 files, not including where the data would actually be consumed.

This was useless for about 80% of the code, but none of the developers needed to memorize which 20% actually needed this.

Probably because of some words that someone else put on a website.

Just as an exercise, how many orders of magnitude is there between  the resources used by web browser that you're using to read this and the difference between `cat foo | grep bump` and `grep bump foo`?

And then the next dev or autoformatter comes and reformats it to

    if (condition)
        doSomething()

and then the next dev comes and adds

    if (condition)
        doSomething()
        doAnotherThing()

thinking that they are both inside the if, when in fact only one of them is. There are countless examples of this resulting in very, very serious bugs in systems that affect pretty much everyone.

Meanwhile

    if (condition) { doSomething() }

has negligible to no impact on readability, but prevents a very serious and common bug. There's no reasonable justification why the compiler shouldn't enforce it, or, if it doesn't, code analysis shouldn't enforce it.

I just wanted to say I tried to test this in C++ but llvm optimized main to `printf("%d\n", 119860736);`

I tried in clang. llvm optimized main to `printf("%d\n", 119860736);`

http://youmightnotneedjquery.com/

&gt; \&gt; Yeah I mess up and have logic errors, or forget to handle some database exception  
&gt;  
&gt;All errors are type errors in a sufficiently eloquent type system. Unhandled exceptions and logic errors as well (safe stuff like wrong spelling in strings of course ;)

&amp;#x200B;

And sufficiently complicated logical expressions can be undecidable.  Undecidability is not a property I want in a type system ;-)

4Head

There are a LOT of comments on that. I feel like they should have been ripped out into a chat room?

Because it works?

Why do you need a full article for this?

Gotcha. Yeah, I was sorta assuming software emulation for RISC-V.

Having seen systems that were flexible in ways that weren't needed when change came and systems that were flexible correctly, but the flexibility had the additional complexity that has an operating cost, I am not sure.

"Flexibility" is often a lure. A spring flexes in one direction, not in another, and I must know what direction I'll need upfront, otherwise...

It comes down to predicting the future. I see more failures than success in that. I also see that a good *grasp* on the current *inflexible* system *is* the needed flexibility.

Don't forget Flutter actually started 4+ years ago. This is about 2 years before Kotlin's 1.0 release. Kotlin native, especially iOS support, is even newer. i.e. At the time the Flutter team chose to use Dart, Kotlin wasn't very mature, and didn't offer the features the team thought would make the project successful.

Edit: Also: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=16476292

HA!

I mean sure but we are having a discussion. It's alright we all love programming(sometimes) here. Middle ground

Mixing jQuery in React / Vue build is a bit annoying.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First_to_file_and_first_to_invent

The relevant quote

&gt;The America Invents Act signed on 16 September 2011,[7] switched U.S. right to the patent from the previous "first-to-invent" system to a "first-inventor-to-file" system for patent applications filed on or after 16 March 2013.[8]

&gt;If it worked the way you just said, there would be literally nothing stopping every patent troll in the world from just looking for un-patented commercial products, getting the patent, and then extorting the companies in question.

Happens more often than you think.

It's not intentional in a sense that they want to exploit the client. But they surely have different incentives, they are a bitch.

this was very interesting..... great post

Well, I need to ssh to remote servers, and edit many types of files in there.  What is tramp? Hever heard of it.

This thread is a literary Hitler.

This is just cringy

That's all my business actually understands. Blah blah this is going to take longer than expected blah blah blah

Why? How do I know it's at all relevant to me? Your title is bad and you should feel bad.

For what it's worth for anyone else, the article title is 

&gt; Software disenchantment

and is another article about bloat in modern software.

A better title would have been

&gt; I urge everyone to read this *article on software bloat*

Really?

That sentence made perfect sense, /u/akher just chose to interpret it in a silly way.

You chose the right article.

&gt; Happens more often than you think.

Does it? I'm thinking no.

I've been through this process. I've had to attend corporate meetings on a near-yearly basis about how this works. I'm one of the inventors on a granted patent, and am one of the inventors on a good handful of others that are currently going through the process. I'm the engineer in the company that gets pulled into the meetings with the in-house counsel as well as our patent lawyers when we have to go over patent-related issues.

Can you say the same?

You obviously don't understand the difference between first-to-file and first-to-invent or what prior-art means.

It used to be that if you could prove--despite it not being otherwise legally prior art--that you came up with something before somebody else filed for the patent, then you could invalidate their claim to the invention/get the patent yourself.

That meant that if you had in-house implementations of an idea, homegrown versions of something, or even according to some, (it's probably apocryphal) had mailed yourself a registered U.S. Mail with the details and never opened it up, and, said information could be proven to predate the patent filing date you were contesting, then you could invalidate said patent and get it yourself.

That changed in 2011. I even remember that because of all the meetings I had to attend *because* that fact was changing.

That shift, while dramatic, did *not* change how prior-art applies in this situation; you still can't patent something that's been shown *anywhere* in public. Hell, it's not even a matter of "public". If it's not under NDA, you can't even show it to your corporate partners, your friends, or your family, without risking somebody contesting you on prior art.

You're simply incorrect.

Don't bother. It's the same "everything is bad these days" rant that is posted here every day.

Had to look it up. You were not kidding. I stand corrected.

Not the OP, but it's simply this: if I recognize parts that do X in, say, three places in a system, and I make then one part P that is now standalone, but still used by these three places, chances are, in the future there will be a 4th place that needs it, and I can just use it there. Flexible!

You're looking for a new maintainer for a tool you wrote less than 24 hours ago ?

fortunately all my apps I use are not written in electron and I can use my 10 years old laptop. if you don't like bloatware, don't use it. it's not like you're forced to use atom, hyper, vscode or slack. make your choices but stop rants.

I give up.

You have a very particular definition of bootstrapping a compiler, as opposed to the usual way of using that term (see https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bootstrapping_(compilers) or http://foldoc.org/bootstrap for example).

Hm, I would expect that the hype around this job title would start to go deflate by now.... guess not. Must be that I spend too much time on hipster websites 😁😁

&gt; Why am I paying a court some money?

Because generally people don't like working for free.

You could argue that taxes should fund the patent process, but if there was no cost to filing a patent, you'd end up with a bloated system. People would file patents hoping to get them through even if there was only a slim chance that it was a unique invention because, why not, it doesn't cost anything to do so?

https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/9go8ul/software_disenchantment/  
https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/9hehud/software_disenchantment_all_the_current_software/

Okay, I'll ask here since it seems you're at least involved enough with the ecosystem to know these tools:

* what's chocolatey
* what's box starter
* does node install both, or one and another installs the least common denominator. Basically what's the chain of command in terms of dependent tools here?
* which tool exactly is the root of the issue
* how the fuck can it change group policies which for non-pro and non-enterprise machines, don't exist? Or rather, don't have access to. Or does this only affect versions pro and enterprise?

Yeah I was wondering why your english is so good. That's usually not the case for japanese people :D

Officially yes, but in reality it only works well in Windows ME.

'"shrimp" in whatever.tolower()'

They rebranded didn’t they?

Old man yells at sky.

Yeah I know for a fact that AWS crawls public GitHub repos and scans for AWS credentials people accidentally checked in, maybe on other places as well.  That's pretty cool of them to do, I wonder how much it costs them compared to how much it saves them by preventing fraudulent charges and helping customer retention.

The performance is usually in pair with the version of Chromium used.

Vhin you're alright because I'm assuming this was a random thought. But everyone who upvoted. WTF!?! Don't you have a braincell?

Not only do many people not want a patent (you wouldn't be able to afford a lawsuit, maybe you can sell it if you have those skills) but it's a whole other skill to write a patent and it cost alot to submit one. Who the fuck thinks this random thought is a good idea wtf!?!

The problem is that the people who **need** to read and understand this (accountants and managers), aren't the people who read this subreddit.

Were you guys using the standard Python interpreter? For speed, pypy is recommend. It's many orders faster than the native Python interpreter from what I remember reading.

PowerShell works on string i a case-insensitive manner by default. But you're right in that `-contains` doesn't work like expected here.

&gt; You don't make software projects cheaper or better by being more thorough in the planning phase

Nonsense, better planning never hurt anything. Of course it's possible to have too much planning, but too little is far more responsible for bad projects than too much.

https://github.com/carlmjohnson/whatsit

Why use Ada if you can just rewrite it in Rust?

I enjoy clean Ruby code, but the distinction of modules from import paths is fundamentally broken and makes everything needlessly painful.

You should do same with all software based on the USA, as well as with other Five Eyes network countries: Australia, Canada, New Zealand and UK

I received a CS&amp;E BS degree from UCLA in the early 90s. The undergrad CS classes there at that time focused heavily on theory. There were labs, but were meant to enable demonstration of the theory. They didn't spend much time teaching you how to program in particular languages, since you were expected to mostly figure that out on your own, and if you couldn't, then I guess that was a hint that you were in the wrong field. I agree with that approach and feel like I received a very solid foundation which has served me very well in my career for almost 30 years.

This post is just one blogger's favorite new methods. There is a lot more that's happened in Java 11. Notable are a new HTTP Client and new Websocket API. There is also new variable declaration syntax inside lambdas. And lots of new methods. This [article](http://www.javamagazine.mozaicreader.com/NovemberDecember2018#&amp;pageSet=39&amp;page=0) in Oracle's Java Magazine gives a long-form discussion of the major points.

I mean, we wouldn't be able to accomplish much if they were all CMP.

To my knowledge, no countries but Australia require the developers to put backdoors on their software and hardware.

Lots of spam on here lately

Is possible run model on the android with developed on the pytorch now ?

You can flopnax a dinglebop and still get good results with the shleem. Just use Plumbus.js.

I think companies are too afraid for off shoring or letting people work from home full time. Yes, it's a challenge, but it's certainly not undoable and an opening to a lot of potential talent.

r/NoStupidQuestions

Uh, wait a second. You said auto-formatter, which means you get this:

    if (condition)
        doSomething()
    doAnotherThing()

You can think of async/await as imperative syntax sugar for the following expression:

    verifyUser(username, password).then(userVerification =&gt; 
        getRoles(username).then(rolesRetrival =&gt; 
            logAccess(username).then(logEntry =&gt; {
                // ... the rest of your function
            })
        )
    );

So it's really just a monad in disguise.

There are other ways of expressing this with different async semantics. As you can see, `verifyUser`, `getRoles` and `logAccess` have no dependency on one another. So, it might be more efficient to perform them in parallel. Written in applicative style, you could do something like this (roughly. this is psuedo code):

    new Promise(userVerification =&gt; rolesRetrieval =&gt; logEntry =&gt; { /* ... the rest of your function */ })
        .apply(verifyUser(username, password))
        .apply(getRoles(username))
        .apply(logAccess(username));

I probably butchered the syntax, but you see what I'm getting at. Applicative style is very elegant and also a less powerful abstraction than a monad. So, it adheres nicely here to the "principle of least power". In a language with custom operators, it would look like this (psuedo code):

    (\userVerification rolesRetrival logEntry -&gt; ... )
    &lt;$&gt; verifyUser username password
    &lt;*&gt; getRoles username
    &lt;*&gt; logAccess username

No special language constructs like async/await are required here. It will also await these operations in parallel since javascript promises would all be started immediately.

So, while async/await is convenient, it's not always best to break out the "monad hammer" so quickly, especially in this case where sequential execution needlessly inefficient.

EDIT: the `apply()` methods here corresponds to the apply function for applicative functors, not the javascript apply function.

Life-changing

I can help with one of those -

chocolatey is a package manager for Windows. See here: https://chocolatey.org/

It's... fine. Not great.

If you think about it, almost every problem regarding software is strongly related to the requirement analysis phase. Either the developers misunderstood something or the problem was there all along. The only way to ensure that you have understood something correctly is to write down workflows. My experience says that presenting diagrams not only help the stakeholders understand clearly what you are designing, but its also easier for the development team to have the bigger picture of what they are building.

I think the article is referring to the "continuation monad" which is a way of composing callbacks without necessarily creating a pyramid of doom (aka "continuation-passing" style). Parser combinators are an example of a continuation monad (iiuc), and they're fucking awesome.

This is sloppy:

    import os
    os.system(f'sudo ifconfig {interface} down')
    os.system(f'sudo macchanger -r {interface}')
    os.system(f'sudo ifconfig {interface} up')

It:

* Doesn't actually check if the commands succeed
* Doesn't interpolate correctly if you like to make things hard for yourself and name your interfaces with spaces in

Using `subprocess` eliminates these problems:

    from subprocess import run
    run(['sudo', 'ifconfig', interface, 'down'], check=True)
    run(['sudo', 'macchanger', '-r', interface], check=True)
    run(['sudo', 'ifconfig', interface, 'up'], check=True)

Yup, these days software is being crippled on purpose, so that companies could charge you for every single feature/line of code, and even write broken code in the first place, so they could charge you again to fix it.

interesting, could this mean cursing against github would be part of the git learning curve ?

I thought this was a riddle/joke. I tried to figure it out and entered the comments looking for the punchline.

I give up. Why IS “2 * (i*i)” faster than “2*i*i”?

Add appetizers until you go over $15.05, apply the secret "nerd discount" to get the total down to exactly $15.05 :)

rilkjef uses crogsnag. crogsnag is so 90s. can't use rilkjef.

I wonder if the "social network" part of github benefits the enterprise hosting or the advertising.

In both situations the buzz potential is something they can't control anyway.

That is elaborated on under the heading “Simple” Operations

Eg on Haswell and newer you can push 4 simple operations per cycle if you try, though more likely there would be some other options in the mix and most of them compete for the same execution ports, and a lot of code has much lower ILP than 4.

How's *this* for a useful comment?

... is what I was planning to say, but this is actually one of the few articles I've ever read that does a good job explaining when *to* use comments, rather than when *not to* use comments. The added explanation of how is useful as well. I wholeheartedly recommend this to anyone wondering how to start writing better, more effective comments.

That is rather inoffensive, now imagine if that was some kind of shit that could land you in prison if you don't have the money for lawyers.

"work" isn't really binary. Something can "work" but lack proper logging, it might lack proper security, it might be built with a shaky and hard to change foundation, it might be using a database without indexes and it might completely lack automated tests. While I agree that you shouldn't overdesign an application, there is still an enormous amount of very useful things you can do that goes beyond "it works".

I'm a huge Rust evangelist... and that's the dumbest idea I've ever heard lol

Thanks! I thought so.

I wonder how Plumbus.js is made?

Then configure / modify / replace the plugin.  
Blaming things like this on a plugin does not speak well of you as a programmer...

Thank you so much. This is amazing

&gt; I think actual flexible code is typically the result of factoring out common elements of working systems, not from engineer brainstorming sessions in the planning phase.

Painful experience has taught me that trying to design multiple apparently-similar subsystems or components to be common from the get-go leads to massive amounts of frustration, second-guessing, wheelspinning and wasted time, due to me trying to account for all commonality I *imagine* will be needed.

Conversely, writing those subsystems as independent - completely ignoring the other "similar" subsystems - gets you something that actually satisfies the spec. Once all those subsystems are completed, it's then almost trivial to compare them, and refactor out the *actual* commonality exposed by the implementations.

Be careful, however, of jumping the gun on such refactorings. Wait until these apparently-common subsystems are in a stable state - i.e. not having new features added - or you might end up forcing commonality where there really isn't any, or missing future duplication that should be refactored into a common place.

Avoiding Big Design Up-Front is difficult - especially if, like me, you detest the waste of duplicated code and the thought that people may be writing it - but I cannot deny that personally, avoiding Big Design Up-Front, in favour of refactoring for commonality later, has resulted in much better work.

I mean, let's be honest, rilkefs are the new shiny thing; and, we've all been around the block when it comes to having to deal with failing rojnars. But, for as long as we're dealing with flopnax-ing (in general), the following is always going to hold: 

If cores never changed, we wouldn't need polymorphism. Of course, nouns are immutable and never change, but we use them as templates to construct new nouns around.

Suppose we take a core, a cell `[battery payload]`, and replace the payload with a different noun. Then, we invoke an arm from the battery.

Is this legal? Does it make sense? Every function call in Hoon does this, so we'd better make it work well.

The full core stores both payload types. The type that describes the payload currently in the core is p. The type that describes the payload the core was compiled with is q.q.

In the Bertrand Meyer tradition of type theory, there are two forms of polymorphism: variance and genericity. In Hoon this choice is per arm, which is why our battery went from (`map term hoon`) to (`map term foot`) when it went into the coil. A `foot` is `%dry` or `%wet`. Dry polymorphism relies on variance; wet polymorphism relies on genericity.

I mean, it's [all laid out really clear, here, in the documentation.](https://urbit.org/docs/hoon/advanced/)

Didn't Fedora add a VM recently?

Yes, you can bother to state what some of the contents in some ways.

With more manual labor and runtime costs.

Then you must be shocked to hear about [PRISM surveillance program](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PRISM_(surveillance_program)), which does exactly that, and a lot more. Some articles confiming that the documents leaked by Snowden mention backdoors into systems of big corporations: [The Verge](https://www.theverge.com/2013/6/6/4403868/nsa-fbi-mine-data-apple-google-facebook-microsoft-others-prism), [BBC](https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-22839609), [ACLU](https://www.aclu.org/blog/national-security/privacy-and-surveillance/nsa-continues-violate-americans-internet-privacy), [The Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/jun/07/nsa-prism-records-surveillance-questions).

Your rating and review is highly required friends, i will so much appreciate if you do

Just out of curiosity; How do you handle SEO when doing client-sided rendering?  
And also the latency thing; Fetching data and rendering a somewhat basic article takes 20-30ms, add a 5-10ms network latency do that and your looking a 25-40ms for the markup do be rendered.  
Looking at React; it still takes 500ms to run the scripts the first time.

Certainly not like like like like this like like a jQuery cowboy, flapnoxing the whole thing

Isn't this old news? There is already Bootstrap 4.1.3 out there

closed as already answered by flopterator

The first one should be

    though.this.to.admit.never.will.Proponents

Apparently it isn't so simple, wtf is this

Microsoft can still shut down teams anytime it wants so I think the question has some merit. Let's see in a few years time

You can be upset, but be fucking quiet about it

There's no guarantee it will be autoformatted. Eg, some devs could use autoformatters and others not. And even if all (current) devs do, again, there's just no reasonable justification why 

    if (condition) { doSomething() }

and

    if (condition) {
        doSomething()
        doAnotherThing()
    }

shouldn't be enforced by the compiler since only downside is negligible to no impact on readibility and the upside is huge.

I would even argue compilers that currently don't enforce it should start enforcing it by default, requiring an explicit opt out to not enforce it.

This is fraud. It's plain old obtaining money by deception. The two employees who said they worked on the research should be fired for trying to claim patent bonuses offered by their company. They did this by lieng about the work they had done.

Thanks, I knew http.DetectContentType works too. but I wrote this to get the info of elf files (Linux executables).

And if you want to explore more complex emulators there are a ton of 6502 emulators.  There's even one written in JavaScript that runs in your browser

&amp;#x200B;

[http://www.6502.org/tools/emu/](http://www.6502.org/tools/emu/)

It's a shame to see what large companies have done with technology.  Ideas are created by people hoping to foster collaboration, then someone realizes they can make more money by claiming it as their territory and building a moat around it.

Agree 100%. I do think being able to deliver this kind of design requires years of experience.

So installing NodeJS directly (without Boxstarter) is not affected?

&gt; *As an application developer, you don’t need to write a single line of JavaScript to create these kinds of experiences. You can write and test all your code in a single language: Elixir. Let’s find out how.*

So basically the only difference is that instead of using HTML and JS it uses Elixir and HTML. At first, I was like wait why not just do it in JS? Then I realised that this article assumes that you as a developer are already using the phoenix framework. 

Overall, I can see how this reduces the amount of effort when building such an implementation using the framework.

The comments I am reading in response to the words on the website miss the point completely.  It is clear from the words on the web page on the link that the point is different than what people here are saying it is.  Did you even read those words on the internet web page, accessed from the link, downloaded and subsequently rendered by your browser of choice?

&gt;We don't know good practices or tools.

We do know some and there's no reason not to use those. This is one of them. (I'm not referring to Ada the language, I'm referring to enforcing delimiters around if statements)

People call me a programmer, I call myself a dabbler in coding.

Yeah it's a tough spot to be in. I was in similar situation once or twice. These days I fill the role of architect / tech lead but I make a conscious effort to not prescribe things on class design level for any reason other than a) simplicity and b) correctness. As long as the components do what they're supposed to, are tested, and as long as they integrate into the larger ecosystem without causing maintenance or support headaches it's all good. Gotta put trust in the team to do the right thing and at most just gently nudge then towards simpler solutions.

The only topic that i seem to have to closely monitor/guide is concurrency concerns since it's just difficult and complex as hell in a large system no matter how simple you try to make it.

How do you enforce good names for variables and functions? Theres no tooling for that.

come on, it's pretty funny

"Ada was originally designed by a team led by Jean Ichbiah of CII Honeywell Bull under contract to the United States Department of Defense (DoD) from 1977 to 1983 to supersede over **450 programming languages** used by the DoD at that time.[9]"

Goddamn! Did they use all of them?

Also I wonder if this just caused them to have 451 programming languages in use afterwards.

The key is to not finish them. Nobody needs documentation for your project if you never complete it.

Not all reactive code is based on the observer pattern. Learn about FRP if you want all nice properties back.

It's mostly startup time that I'm not really happy about. Hopefully the new version improves on that.

RIL?

You might want to get the article

Did you try .Net core?

In all companies where I worked code review was always very big problem: a lot of conflicts related to psychological relations and the win mostly is unrelated to technical arguments but to more aggressive position (and employee position). So, my IMHO here is: code review is bad practice and should be totally rejected from IT: problems which are shifted to code review were solved previously in another way. I don't understand why modern IT companies totally ignore experience of other engineering areas where specialists solve more-more serious tasks (good technical planning, technical management, collaboration with right and clean rules, etc - can help to replace review process mostly or reduce it to very formal and quick procedure). So, for me, code review can not solve problems but only to make them deeper.

Thanks for the tip!

Possibly. And once you master it, you reword all your commits to remove the curses.

Which proves your point: people who learned removed any and all traces of it... /s

Reason magazine? No thanks.

Something about this analogy doesn't add up. The charitable interpretation in my opinion seems to say something about curated development environments optimized for a specific workflow. I'm in favor of this and don't see much wrong with it because most developers after a while develop templates for projects that they reuse. That's kinda like going to a restaurant.

The part where it breaks down I think is when the analogy is taken to its logical conclusion. In the limit we get managed services and serverless and this endpoint is actually more work than cooking at home.

It's unclear to me which interpretation the author was going for.

\&gt; less than 24 hours ago 

I committed 24 hours ago doesn't mean I only take a day to get it done. 

I wrote this only to get the info I want, now it's done. If no one wants to taker over this, I'll update it slowly.

Every project should abstract away everything possible.

Never write SQL, use an ORM with procedural predicate logic.

Everything should have interfaces, dependency injection, I18N and as much XML configuration as possible.

Never call a method directly. Write  microservices.

Marshall responses to JSON.

Use at least a dozen Docker instances.

To add to that, static typing helps a lot when trying to understanding how the pieces of a codebase fit together. This benefits both newcomers to a team and the team itself when they need to get up to speed with code that haven't been touched in a while.

So even if dynamic typing manages to produce similar quality of code, static typing is advantageous.

I mean? apart from the clipboard manipulation, its literally just Regex? You can also extract text using Regex already using capture groups.

Yeah, they move fast and break things.

https://www.theregister.co.uk/2018/11/30/google_stole_my_patent/

1st and simplest answer is: Rust is unstable, ie it's changing even in central architecture decisions. Ada has stable standards for many-many years. "Maturity".

Another, what I think is: there are a lot of kinds of tests (unit/acceptance/e2e/api/etc/etc/etc). But most important kind of test is time - how long some technology is using is real world critical applications. And this parameter for Rust = 0, for Ada... we fly on plans where soft is written in Ada :) This is a very important test which can be answer why it's better to use safe and right language instead of hipster modern language.

Also Rust can not be verified, but Ada can (SPARK).

No problem. If you have any suggestions for other things to use as meme fodder, lemme know.

Found... or made?

Because it turns out Awful Arthur's [is a real restaurant with an actual online menu](http://www.awfularthurs.com/index.html) but a) it's still in .jpg format and b) it's only readable if you consider Comic Sans readable.

I could check archive.org for an older version of the menu, but I've spent two minutes on this already and I've completely exhausted how much I give a shit.

Honestly replies like this almost makes me want to implement comments on christine.website. Almost.

This is like saying you might not need React. You obviously don't need jQuery or React but it can make developing and maintaining some things a hell of a lot easier. jQuery is still widely used today and it's not going away anytime soon.

edit: ITT: web hipsters

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0S3aH-BNf6I

Weiners hehehe

&gt;Abstractions are only useful when you already understand the stuff that underpins that abstraction.

Which completely misses the whole point of abstractions. The reason abstractions are good are because you can do something without knowing exactly what is happening underneath. You can write a program on a modern processor without knowing exactly what opcodes it is going to translate into and that is a good thing.

Considering the size of bootstrap, I find the second point a bit oxymoronic...

&gt;on the other, what Intel did with x86 to make it the way it is, is mind blowing.

What did they do? Any good resources?

I feel like I need to apologize to a baby boomer.    I didn't realize that all these "new language features" have been around for 40 years.

\&gt; HHVM team made an impressive investigation to find the culprit: aggressively inlined memcpy. The code of the memcpy function size was 11KB on their platform and caused a cache thrashing.

I swear everyone who deals with performance critical code gets bitten by this eventually.  On x64 gcc is willing to turn memcpy (including copy/assignment of trivially copy-able structs) into an unrolled loop of assignments as long as the resulting bytecode is below some magic limit.  Get too many of these on the hotpath and you're going to completely thrash your instruction cache.

I am still not sure what the best way to handle this de-optimization is.  I wish gcc was smart enough to look at the total size of the \_\_attribute((hot)) code paths and be more aggressive about optimizing it for total size.

Writing code is the easy part.

You'll want all the help you can get when maintaining it.

A huge problem with outsourcing is this: If you can't do it yourself, you also don't have the skills to make the proper requirements.  

A lot of the cheap outsourcing firms have their core competency in the legal department, so they are experts at writing contracts that sound good but take advantage of every possible loop hole in your requirements.  

Think about this: One side is negotiating a contract for the first time. That's me. The other side is negotiating these kinds of contracts every day as the only thing they do in their daily work. That's the big and cheap contractor. Who do you think will end up with the contract being in their favor?  

This is why both governments and private businesses often end up paying a lot more than expected for outsourcing. They have no idea how to make proper requirements.

I think you're just *imagining* things.

Awesome! ty

Yes, there is manual labor in writing preconditions, etc. But you would do that anyway with static typing - writing the types of your functions and variables.

The major cost, which I certainly agree is important and has some impact, is that there can be runtime exceptions if code gets an input it is not expecting. However, there are some straightforward ways to mitigate this, which I think balance it out to make coding in Clojure still a joyful and productive experience. Clojure tends to make it easy to idiomatically bypass NullPointerExceptions with "nil punning". There are great tools for static analysis. Ahead-of-time compiling and unit testing help eliminate most errors. But it is still a cost.

Recently? There has been Qemu, KVM, VirtualBox, VMware and many others, like, forever.

EDIT: Oh god. I just read more into this issue. Whoever thinks it's a remotely acceptable idea to mess with Windows *group policies* in the package manager has no business writing code for a Windows package manager. It's not a "thar be dragons" issue, it's a "don't get in the way of the admins and security policy" issue.

This is one of the reasons NodeJS gets installed onto the Windows Linux Subsystem on my Ubuntu installation instead of Windows itself.\* Far more people are familiar with and use NodeJS on Linux based deployments and I can use APT.

I don't get why Chocolatey and Boxstarter have to dive so deep into my Windows internals. Package managers really don't need to. Case in point: you can install the entire gcc toolchain via Cygwin with just standard admin elevation.

\* Other reason is dual-booting is an ongoing pain in the ass due to how every single Grub update seems to fuck up my boot loader.

Looks like OP made a reddit account just so they could talk about their product.

I'm sure they're proud of their work, but this comes off like SEO blog spam to me. There isn't really anything useful in the post.

I'm in agreement that async/await/do syntax is generally easier to read than a series of continuation functions. The author just created a more generalized version of `Promise.all` that evaluates monadic values in sequence. Sometimes this is useful and cleaner than the async/await alternative. For example:

    const urls = [
        'https://www.google.com',
        'https://www.reddit.com',
        'https://www.facebooks.com',
    ].map(fetchHtml)
    .promiseAll()
    .then(documents =&gt; documents.map(findUrls))
    .then(Array.flatten);

You can implement the above with async/await using a recursive loop, but it's not nearly as readable. Using a higher-level combinator like `.promiseAll()` (which you can imagine as an extension to `Array`), factors out the loop for you. It's the same as the difference between using `Array.map` and a `for` loop.

The more significant limitation of async/await IMO is that it awaits promises sequentially. This has performance implications in situations where it's more efficient to do fork/join parallelism instead.

Also, promises are eagerly scheduled, which is kind of inconvenient in certain cases. The `.map(fetchHtml)` would generate a bunch of promises and start them all immediately. What if you wanted to throttle the concurrency to 2 at a time? Using the continuation monad (and callbacks), you can delay evaluation until the moment you would normally call `.resolve()` on a promise, which gives you more flexibility.

That doeesn't answer why it's not deprecated though.

But he wasn't employed by Google?

Firefox on Windows 10

This is just plain wrong. Others have commented why so I don't feel the need to go to into it, but rules restrict. That's what they do. So if you have rules you have less things you can do. Less things == easier to break.

This is why I use Event Storming and Event Modeling. It's easy to do fixed bid, charged by completed functionality along the way. It's implemented in CQRS/ES to ensure that initial features cost as much to develop as indeed implemented later.

You are giving yourself too much credit.

"Echo's"?

\facepalm

Just wait until you realize that every word I quoted there is taken from that linked documentation, and it's completely serious.

Only my 5 cents: if you plan to make Ada propaganda then today there is Haskell (promoted very aggressively and not very correctly), LiquidHaskell (tool, not ready for production yet), Idris, F\*, Agda, Rust, etc, so Ada is \*really safe\* and will be very good to make accents on this - why Ada is \*really safe\* and what is the difference between Ada and Haskell, for example, related to safety (because today there is a trend on safety/verification). I can only add my thoughts on this:

* Ada has SPARK (Haskell and Co have not such language extensions/dialect and mostly they should use 3rd party tools which leads to a lot of problems - you have not good-setuped way to verify C++, even Haskell code, all is experimental, with bugs, with terrible syntax, no any guaranties...)
* Ada (and SPARK) syntax is super simple/readable, intuitively understandable, you need to know only basic English (not mathematics, not algebraic abstractions, not weird operators, etc). Code in Haskell looks like stream of operators, like puzzle which leads to run-time bugs: you can operate on lists and expression passes type-checking but leads to wrong result (for example, empty list when some items are expecting)
* Nature of \*real world bugs\* are misunderstanding of something in external world (behavior): of OS, of libraries/frameworks, services, protocols, etc (because all of them are super complex today, so nobody knows them very good). So, \*real world bugs\* can not be prevent with type checking, even verification can not help here (I did error, because I have not idea what could happen in this case - I can not verify something if I don't know even if something is possible even). Another reason why real world bugs can not be caught  with verification is: behavior usually has so many cases that this lead to super complex types - imagine phantom type with tens of parameters). And again - to create this tens parameters you should have correct knowledge of all aspects of behavior of some complex object. And more - object can be broken (in different ways) - so ways of breaking should become parameters too. How to handle bugs in this case? Contracts helps here: I should not know all parameters but I can guard correct behavior's branch/way of my application with contracts (conditions when my program will work correctly), so Ada has this mechanism, Haskell and Co - don't.
* Ada has ranges (refinement types), Haskell has not them (but F\* has). No way to have subrange of Integers in Haskell
* Ada has control of arith. overflow, Haskell has not (F# has).
* Ada has predictable behavior: no surprises about performance, memory usage: what you write is what you get, no black magic
* Ada machine code is simple and more related ("homomorphic"?) to original Ada source code, while in languages as Haskell you have not idea what compiler will generate
* In Ada you can use hand written memory management (to allocate/to free), but in Haskell you can only disable GC in some regions
* Good is to compare Ada GC with GC of other language
* Ada supports \*hard real time\* which is impossible in all other "safe" languages
* Ada (please, correct me, if I'm wrong) compiler can detect infinite loops and to raise warning, Haskell - never.
* May be good is to check some more strict features, like pragmas, compiler settings....

It will be good to make some examples of code: how code looks safe in some language but really contains bugs/border cases, but the same task solved in Ada misses those errors or handles them correctly in run-time.

I write this comment because today there is very aggressive promotion of such languages, no problems but they try to treat word "safe" in very free and wrong way. Can we entrust our life to a device (airplane, robot surgeon, etc.) whose software is written in such a language? No, we can not, so word "safe" is correct in case of Ada and is not correct in the case of such languages. This may be good indirection of Ada propaganda. And my lovely example: F-35. As I understood, it fails again? And again they talk - cause of fails is soft, no problem, we will rewrite some parts, some patches, improvements... I have feeling that in case of Ada (where code looks like specification, like some scheme or plan), all software problems would be avoided.

PS. Excuse my English, please :)

Beyond that, there are a good deal of code motion optimizations that can't be done because you don't know if the function you're calling can throw, making that rewrite's effects visible.

Potential throws act, more or less, like memory barriers.

Uniform interfaces (message passing) gets rid of this.

I wonder if you've actually ever used Stack Overflow, or just think you're being edgy by parroting an unfunny meme.

Windows XP install 1.5Gb

Windows Vista install 15Gb

Windows 10 install (due to win installers folder and sxs) &gt; 80Gb I've actually had to swap out my 120Gb SSD because of windows and MS office and very little else. Meanwhile my Fedora install on my laptop sits at a comfortable 30Gb including all the applications i use.

&amp;#x200B;

and in all honesty for what I use windows for I would love to know why there is such a difference in sizes for base install.

Yes.  That's true of his original post where it seemed the only issues we ethics and/or possible lack thereof.  Patent ownership &amp; cost of applying for parents came up in some of the subsequent comments.

Or Pascal

👏👏

use a pure css framework like bulma then

Yeah, but SQL server somehow forgot to implement CSV import. And no, it doesn't actually exist, only a terrible terrible hack in its place

Maybe the file is several gigabytes long and you just want the last bit. It's not about the performance of cat, it's about not reading the whole file

Agree but now it's time to change. I'm pretty sure that if flutter changed to kotlin its userbase would atleast double in a short time . All android kotlin developers would come running. Flutter is an excellent idea.

Great work...

Why exactly do you think this subreddit is the best place for your "Java Tutorial For Beginners"?

This guy architects.

Not like Docker but with Docker and Kubernetes. It runs entirely in the browser.

The way people build buildings today is completely different to how they were built even 70 years ago. Way more different than software is today compared to what it was like 70 years ago.

You are welcome! I hope we will soon be able to add language support for Xtend to Gitpod and Theia, too.

&gt;9-to-5 programmer

Why specify that this person likes reasonable work hours? And don't you have any input? You're a team, aren't you. That sounds like more of a problem than this specific programmer.

So... What do supervillains use? XML? YAML? TOML?

Just another example of how confusing the term "VM" is to the laymen.

Intersection types, not union types (even though it's a union of properties).

A dev who doesn’t know how basic language syntax works should just be fired. If you can’t even get this right, you can’t be trusted to do anything actually difficult either.

OCaml is fine.

What is it?

Is any project every truly finished?

Probably the author does not even realise it, but his analogy is also a criticism of the *agile* process.

&gt;PonyAPI
A simple API for information on episodes of My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic written in Nim to be run inside a container.

&gt;All data is loaded into ram and there are no usage limits as long as you agree to not take down the server it is running on.

Hired.

A non-Betterridge headline:

&gt; after two years, I can tell you – that was a good choice for the project and my career.

Specific pain points mentioned were setup pains and missing or outdated type declarations/definitions for JS libraries.

**Edit:** clarify second pain point.

`yes`

bob is an idiot         
he should have just asked the waiter

&gt; The Arr.sequence function above actually knows nothing about asynchronicity or continuations, it is a general purpose tool that can take a list of some monadic values and give you a monadic list of values.

The reason i think this argument falls flat with javascript programmers is because there are no typeclassish interfaces out-of-the box. There are arrays (list monad) and promises (continuation monad kinda), but there's no common monad interface as you pointed out. Also there are no Option, Either, or IO types. I'm sure someone could (and probably has) written an npm module to monkey-patch typeclass interfaces like Monad, Applicative, and Monoid onto common JS types, but AFAIK such a thing is not ubiquitous in the ecosystem the way async/await or promises are.

So while combinators like `Arr.sequence` may sound great in theory, what can JS programmers use them on right out-of-the-box without introducing another obscure library dependency? Plus culturally, I think most JS programmers would stick their fingers in their ears once you got up on your soap-box and started extolling the glory of category theory, even if you deliberately try to avoid mentioning the "M" word. Things like `Arr.sequence` are so abstract, that you can't really justify them wrt to more familiar things like async/await without going deeper down the FP rabbit hole. And by then, you're in space-burrito land.

Good article, btw. I realize I'm splashing cold water on your efforts like a lazy internet troll. People may eventually warm up to these kinds of arguments as FP idioms become more common in Javascript. There's just a little bit of a barrier that FP evangelists have yet to overcome.

CQRS/ES are perfect solutions but work well with certain domain models only. You need to be sure you have understood the business domain perfectly, otherwise the cost will touch the roof eventually. Currently, I have been working with CQRS/ES and I can surely say that a bad decision initially will make you suffer like nothing else!

This is why tech companies patent everything. Many don't troll. It's way cheaper to file thousands of patents for things you might want to do than to prove prior art for things you're already doing.

Install previous version of extension **Hola...**

&gt;If an array of floats will not be aligned by 4, there will a performance penalty.

This performance penalty only exists when the load group crosses a cacheline boundary and not both of them are resident. MOVAPS has been a legacy optimization since 2011, barely worth doing anymore. In particular the difference it makes is less than the difference of shuffling things back and forth from an array-of-structs form.

&gt; I don't understand. The post literally provides an example of LLVM producing SIMD code.

Most SIMD code out of compilers doesn't fill the pipeline. And here we see the integer additions working four at a time, which is crowded out of the pipeline by this amount of loop control code executed per SIMD instruction.

Then there's considerations about how soon the data produced will be consumed again, which kills SIMD dead if you're doing fewer than 256 instances at a time. Etc, etc

I do concede that it is less prone to this. I however do not concede that it makes enough of a difference to affect the end result in 90% of the applications. Yes there is less data to be sent over the wire but an unreliable network would still render the app unusable. It doesn't matter if one in 3 clicks fails or 1 in 5, the user will still be annoyed and stop using the app. Also most apps do in fact make a network request for almost every UI interaction. The apps that don't are somewhat an exception like if you are building a web based word processor. In my experience the great majority of software being built is of the forms over data variety for which this approach is just as good as the React SPA one.

Right, which is why this was given as a counterexample to 

&gt;&gt; you can take any static language (I'm waiting for counterproofs..) and make it dynamic by dropping the type annotations (if any)

That's not a valid criticism, if Bootstrap can drop dependencies that are not strictly necessary, then it should regardless of the size of the core codebase.

This is rather long but worth watching.   
[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aiKRt3-FbM0](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aiKRt3-FbM0)

The opposite is true. We're just effective at building things badly very efficiently due to the amount of time spent fighting Moore's Law from the storage aspect. 10 years in of doing nothing but CQRS, anything else is slower. There is no faster way to start than with event sourcing. But you need time to realize this and unlearn a lot.

All information systems are CQRS/ES. We do a lot to throw away information and make really bad optimizations. The end result is anemic, canonical models that let cyclomatic complexity get out of control that have important accountability thrown in the trash.

I don't know if you're joking or not, but i is not an imaginary number in this context. It's simply a loop counter variable.

Razor Components is certainly aimed at people who hate (for some definition of hate) JS although MS would never say that publicly because they are scared there would be backlash that they are doing EEE or something. The niche created by JS haters is quite big.

Also there is no contradiction in GraphQL and Razor Components existing simultaneously. Sometimes you want to minimize network requests sometimes you don't because that internal app is running on a server in the next room. Both are valid problems to be solved. Also note that GraphQL doesn't only aim to reduce the *size* of the payload, I would even argue that this is secondary benefit. GraphQL aims to reduce the *number* of requests compared to more traditional REST. If you think about it Razor Components will also reduce the number of requests (for most apps) compared to REST endpoints although sometimes the cost will be sending more data.

TDD means test *driven* design. Ie. tests come before the design of the software itself. I didn't suggest TDD means you ignore software engineering fundamentals. The quote just points out that putting tests first might be misguided.

It's more of a term to describe him as someone who's just a programmer as a means to get billable hours. But yeah, the team dynamic is terrible.

There's no such thing as an interpreted or compiled language.

&gt; Undecidability is not a property I want in a type system ;-)

Why? There are a really few languages with decidable type system (which probably nobody use, OCaml, F*, scala, rust are all undecidable). Decidability of inference gives you nothing really, while expressiveness gives you power to encode pretty subtle invariants within your types. 

https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/a1o5iz/maybe_not_rich_hickey/eathiia/

On the other hand, there are *dynamic* languages that were designed to be interpreted, making an efficient compilation nearly impossible. Colloquially such languages are often called just "interpreted" - technically incorrect, but still easy to understand what is meant.

The code creates an array of random bytes and then checks which are smaller than 128. You can't predict randomness, no matter how good your predictor is. (Unless you're suggesting that the predictor would learn the right answer for all 32k array entries so the outer loop can get faster after the first time the inner loop completes... but that's *way* off what current branch predictors are capable of.)

To be fair, I don't think Ada does much about that either.

Why would I care? This is type, it's about what data is in and what data is out. Of course you could encode it with dependent types in F* (since types are values), but why would you?

&gt; Also I wonder if this just caused them to have 451 programming languages in use afterwards.

Considering that legacy systems written in Fortran are still uncomfortably common... I'd say odds are very good. Especially in govt, it takes a very long time for a codebase to be retired, if ever.

&gt; you can take any static language (I'm waiting for counterproofs..) and make it dynamic by dropping the type annotations (if any)

Haskell typeclass resolution would be another counterexample. E.g.

    maxBound == x

where the compiler makes sure types of `x` and `maxBound` are the same and `maxBound` returns the largest value of its type (so if `x` is an `Int`, `maxBound` is 2^31 - 1, and if it's an `UInt8`, `maxBound` is `255`). 

I don't know any dynamic language where `maxBound` could depend on `x` in this situation.

Similarly with Scala implicits.

Specific suggestions? Before he joined, the entire project was using a shared library of common plain data structures (using Protobuf, since it's widely supported), so components are easy to integrate with each other.

Nothing beats FlopNar Enterprise Edition. It's a hefty investment, but I always have a good chuckle when I see n00bs messing with their crufty rilkef infested codebases.

Not much of a case for "should have used Ada" if it's really "should have used any of dozens or hundreds of non-C languages".

It never hurts to always be thinking about about variable allocations (and if you really need them), whether you can eliminate a branch or not, whether you need to add to the beginning of an array or the end of it.... Why it matters, when it matters.

It really does matter in certain situations, even at the highest level languages. Compilers and processors are good, but not magic.

Not only is visual 6502 an emulator, it's a *gate level emulator*. It's emulating the transistors.  In javascript.  In your browser.  In an OS.  On your computer.

&gt; They are personal

How do you find which code is broken after you changed the return value type of your function from `_ -&gt; int` to `_ -&gt; Maybe int`?

Poor guy.

Apple's not really clear on this, but it seems to me that to use TestFlight, you need a developer subscription, since it's  managed through App Store Connect just like App Store publishing.

Outdated type declarations?

I find type declarations already a pain point to begin with.

Some people need guidance since their feeble brain does not function without types.

Pretty much Hacker News.

set -o pipefail for bonus points

And the article closes with the wrong advice:

&gt; Unless you'd like unsolicited messages coming out of your printer, now might be a good time to make sure your firmware is up to date.

It's a printer; its job is to print and a firmware update is unlikely to change that. Just take your printer behind a firewall or router.

If you have that kind of hostile environment you (as a company) won't produce good code.

That's a very tasteful use of colour. I agree with those that say that using more than three colours is asking for design trouble.

I'd rather use my feeble brain to do useful stuff rather than reimplementing what my computer knows to do perfectly well (checking types)

Microsoft's self-promo knows no boundaries.

It's also hilarious how they claim xyz without showing the data to any of these claims.

&gt; All of this growth is thanks to the open source community. 

Right - simple patsies. Where did all that +7 billion dollars flow? Definitely not to the users. To the users only promo flows.

&gt; Together, you’ve built and collaborated on a broad spectrum of projects,
&gt; from hobbies to professional tools and across varying developer
&gt; experience levels.

They need Github to do so?

&gt; You also had a lot of fun, starring and contributing to gaming projects

Wow - they can even analyse the psyche. Now you know that you had 
a "lot of fun"! I wonder which advanced method they employ to come to
this conclusion. I myself can not really evaluate much at all from written
text alone.

&gt; New open source projects also helped you get work done with tools
&gt; like denoland/deno for developing in TypeScript

Never heard of this before. Or is that another promo? We now need
TypeScript to get things done?

&gt; We pulled the top 10 projects open sourced in 2018 based on
&gt; the total number of stars they accumulated in their first 28 days
&gt; on GitHub.

That is a flawed way too. Back when I was using Github before the
hostile MS take-over, I would use stars primarily to keep track of
what may seem interesting but even then I would use this sparingly.

That in itself does not say much about usage of any project. People
could star but not use a project, so...

      nodejs
      react
      dotnet
      docker
      android
      machine-learning
      api
      ios
      cli
      vue

That list is pretty sad. Are these topics very interesting? Node?
Machine "learning"? I still don't understand why the word "learning"
is used there.

&gt; Cheers and congratulations to a year of new ideas emerging,
&gt; knowledge gained, and continually changing the way we build
&gt; and think about software development.

Yeah! For example by not depending on [big company dominating
the field] here.

Strangely enough I have ideas without Github too.

Nah, he just needs to learn how to use Make. CMake fixed exactly none of the issues that Make has.

Upvoted for "full keyboard warrior".

The modern-day samurai know where to strike at.

I did not watch the video - I feel videos take too much time compared to written text.

This is wrong:

    LIBS = $(shell ${PKG_CONFIG} --libs openssl)

Please don't do this. You're using a deferred variable (that you're calling "lazy" for some reason) for a shell expansion. This will spawn a pkg-config subprocess each time $(LIBS) is evaluated, which is slow. Use immediate variables here.

I tried the protobuf route, but it's easier to just do conventions implicitly and rely on json serialization alone. Keep things simple. Maybe add a meta wrapper and semantic versioning as a property at that level to catch unexpected newer versions as a guard. If you're doing event sourcing, version the events.

&gt;Can you say the same?

First of all why should I believe you. You didn't even know first to file was a thing. Something you could have looked up on wikipedia in a second but didn't and instead hit the reply button all smug and thinking you were right.

&gt;That shift, while dramatic, did not change how prior-art applies in this situation; you still can't patent something that's been shown anywhere in public.

The chances of prior art overturning your patent are pretty close to zero. It just doesn't happen that often.

That solely depends on the definition of the words used.

Different languages claim to use OOP and from within the context of the respective definition, it's a proper definition. Of course most languages use an awful joke of what they call OOP but that is another issue.

Everything's fair to beat T-series.

A parser can't do semantic highlighting.

How would it know that a symbol comes from an external import?

Only a language server can provide that kind of information.

That's a good point. Would that be like Tcl for example?

The Rick and Morty reference is waaay far down here. The words she used sounded just like some Justin Roiland shit. 

Edit: It‘s Morty, of cause. Stupid fingers

&gt; I have no doubt that Ada is a safer language than C (not hard) but this seems like a poor example.

This is only the first blog post in a series it seems. We will see if the of cases are more significant for you.

Not everyone out there use CMake (or meson, which is even better) and these are common error I see often in open source projects.

Same things written here also helps with CMake and meson because `PREFIX` is a standard often misused.

&gt; I've yet to see code that was intentionally designed from the beginning for "flexibility" actually be flexible in a way that was useful. (And to be clear, I have personally made this mistake).

the system I've been working on ([a multimedia sequencer](https://ossia.io)) has been designed with flexibility from the ground up (e.g. lots of interfaces, dynamically loaded plugins), and while it had a cost in terms of amount of code, it also had a non negligible number of benefits : 

- interns and students could come and write their own plug-in to the system without needing to touch at the existing code at all ; just drop the new code in a folder, launch a build, and here it is
- the base of the system could be used as a basis for other, unrelated software which saved a lot on development costs
- much easier to support cross-platform things, e.g. various audio APIs between mac / windows / linux / wasm or additional network / multimedia protocols (MIDI, DMX, OSC, etc etc...)
- multiples scripting language could be easily integrated (javascript, python, and now a JIT c++ compiler since some users demand maximal performance for their custom algorithms and JS just doesn't cut it)

designing like this from the ground up allows for most features to be developed independently from all the other, especially if you enforce strict compile-time boundaries between modules with hidden symbol visibility.

Of course, to choose where the interfaces are, I use the rule of 3 (if the same code crops up at three different places, it's time to refactor and abstract it) - it's not perfect but it's a good rule of thumb to get started.

That is core

I would have bought it if it was like $20-30. $80 is too much for me especially with players like VSC or even vim w/ plugins all being free and open source

The guy phoned in his horseshit without reading the post lol

&gt; does it implement an borrow checker like Rust? 

Something equivalent will be implemented in SPARK/Ada.
But you should look beyond the borrow checker. Memory safety is nice, functional safety is better.

&gt;Can it reduce verbose error checks (which obscure the story of the code behind repetitive bookkeeping) by allowing functions to return algebraic Maybe&lt;&gt; types? 

There are ways to do that, I think, but the code will not look very nice.

&gt; Does it support programming-by-contract?

Yes it does. Even more so since Ada2012.

https://learn.adacore.com/courses/intro-to-ada/chapters/contracts.html

&gt; Can you place unit tests in the same file as a function so that test code is also the example code?

You can declare test cases in the specification of the unit.

[edit: link to Ada design by contract lesson]

The digital millennium copywrite act contains an exception for the preservation of digital files on legacy media. It's how archive.org is able to have so many old games on it. So although you won't be buying IP rights when buying these disks, you probably (IANAL) don't need them to justify making a copy.

Personally, I would buy it if it was $20-30

&gt; Side-effects
&gt;   - A function does more than 1 thing. Lets say deleteUser() also animates some text and graphics. That's a side-effect

That's not really what a side effect is. The number of actions is not important. A function can do one thing and still have side effects. 

A function without side effects will not cause state to change. IO by its nature is a side-effect. 

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Side_effect_(computer_science)

&gt; But why use tooling if your languages does it for you?

in practice there is not much difference between "the language" and "the tooling", since it's the tooling which implements the language. e.g. in C and C++ you can enable clang-tidy warnings to prevent this, and clang-tidy is basically clang with additional checks.

I'm curious to see what a modernized Jenkins is like, moving away from it (in it's current state) has overall made by life much easier.

From the fine article "That’s not a typo—today we’re shipping Bootstrap 3.4.0, a long overdue update to address some quality of life issues, XSS fixes, and build tooling updates to make it easier for us, and you, to develop."

Actually that's the first paragraph.

Last week it has been aws this, aws that, however.

Not having watched the video I'd say procedural and functional is the way forward. Objects is a nice concept, but why attach state modifications onto them? Leave that to functions that take objects as parameters. I know this approach can create issues as well and sometimes OOP can be very elegant but I think this is the best general approach and there are no silver bullets.

I don't think that this is in any way useful these days, maybe until the 1990s. If you look at Javascript - as the most popular (as in "nr. of installations") example - you have both interpreted as well as compiled code at the same time. A modern runtime is what in the last millennium were separate tools compiler, profiler, interpreter, code analyzer all in one. There is a point where simplification is no longer "abstraction" but just wrong and the opposite of useful. 

[Simons' BASIC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simons%27_BASIC) was an interpreter. C code passed through gcc to build a Linux kernel is compiled. Those are nicely black/white. The JS runtime in a modern browser is not, as an example for where that black/white view fails quite miserably.

I really like the style of that site with the font and color scheme!

We have that. I think it's called C.

not medium. not listening.

Hahaa nice way to teach basics on how to use pipes and sed / awk, which is the main goal of the post, AFAIK.

I dare you to do the same with windows batch

Ok, powershell then :)

Is that Noon language a satire/esoteric lamguage or serious? I think the first, but I cannot 100% tell and that scares me.

Yeah, the problem is more that he doesn't want to use the shared data structures, so now how he wants us to write copy constructors between the two for no real reason (because he doesn't actually want to do it himself). Agree with using implicitly conventionalized json-ish structures, it's the quickest choice when working in a scripted environment without hard structure types at least, one of the advantages of scripting languages, but it's a burden in a hard typed language.

Unless it is certain manufacturers printers. 

A lot of them offer printing from the web, so presumably changing the default password will help?

Great article there, I learned a lot myself from Bisqwit in terms of emulation development and even managed to make a couple emulators myself because of it, a surprisingly fun task to actually do, especially one you see the results!

&amp;#x200B;

One nitpick though, this is an Emulator you're written rather than a VM.

What do you use instead? I've been looking at their Jenkins X CI system.

What a salty and jelly comment...

Fixed, thanks for the tip!

Your computer today is massively more powerful than a 6502, so it isn't a problem at all to emulate every transistor - there are only 3,510 of them in a 6502.

Triggered

That's exactly my point: my computer is so many orders of magnitude larger and faster than the humble 6502 that it can emulate it with relative ease, with all those layers of abstraction in place.

That's not how pipelining works. With a N stage pipeline you get one instruction per cycle on average. There are  N instructions 
executing  in parallel, but each of those last N cycles. 

An IPC above 1 is only possible with superscalar processors

Writing a virtual CPU and a compiler that takes C and targets your virtual PC is a great summer project. I did it on my Amiga too many years ago now. Every programmer should do it at least once.

Unit test and integration test are not necessary mutually exclusive.

Well see what he offers for the rest of the series before we make that conclusion.

Who said anything about unit tests or integration tests? We're talking automated vs manual testing.

&gt; I did not watch the video - I feel videos take too much time compared to written text.

+1. I really wish people always posted the slides along with the video :(

Any sufficiently talented engineer has had this happen multiple times. The lesson is to stop selling yourself short.

While I'm not saying you are wrong, we do have to be careful so that we aren't so strict that changes can't be made without an IDE. 

I'm not just thinking about knuckle draggers who force their employees to use notepad (yes, that's a real thing) but also runtime code generators.

I was the one saying that they don't exist.

While I agree in spirit, people make mistakes when they're tired. And merge tools really screw things up on occasion.

&gt;Look, I'm going to answer you politely, but I'll stop if you continue with these disrespectful comments. 

Look, you should learn about the topics before posting things. You're pretty much shitposting r/programming.

&gt; Prior to Rust, garbage collectors were the defacto standard for managing memory in a safer way. 

Nope: 1. GCs were only used for high-level domains 2. smart pointers and move-semantics existed before Rust. 3. linear types existed before Rust.

&gt; They incur a runtime cost though, and can still leak around OS resources.

It's not just the runtime cost - it's also the issue that you can't control the memory and you need to live with the latency created by the collection phases.

&gt; It's been a while now though since their overhead hasn't been problematic due to more powerful hardware and increase in memory, for most use cases.

Half true, GCs just got more sophisticated but they're still lagging behind.

&gt; The use case is key in the comment that you quoted from me. Everyone who could afford to pay the runtime overhead of a GC did. One group that still struggle to this day with the overhead are system level programmers, because a lot of their use case still target weaker hardware with limited memory.

And game developers(they're not targeting "weaker" hardware), and embedded developers, and those who need low latency etc.

&gt; But the way the tagline is written, I feel like it insinuates that prior to Rust, the reason people only picked two of those was because they weren't smart enough.

No, they said that because it's obvious that it was impossible before. Even Rust has problems with performance(it's also 'too far' from the hardware, which's a problem for some developers) but it's the first language using linear typesystems at this level *and* also concentrating on safety and performance. Now, the "productivity" of Rust is highly questionable.

Core reviews were not the cause of your company's dysfunction. Nor is the fact that it couldn't solve the problem surprising. If people can't behave like professionals, or at least adults, then it really doesn't matter what process you use.

https://christine.website/resume is another joke.

Is that not exactly the same as what I wrote in my Kotlin example? Except without the outer `try` block? Just having unchecked exceptions doesn't make them go away, you have to catch them somewhere, and often the best place is at the source of the exception. Which is why I don't understand why Kotlin has made it so clunky and unergonomic to do such a fundamental thing.

That's not really an abstraction. A compiler is just a source to source translator. Ignoring the hardware, C++ is still a Turing-complete model of computation all on its own.

If I were to call `printf` though... That's an abstraction. It's reaching out of the arena of C++ and is performing a complex implementation-defined operation.

That's another one for the "medium 'article' as an ad for some product" bin.

&gt; The only benefit currently of dynamic types is their convenience honestly. They just get out of your way. Static type systems still limit the realm of valid programs, or sacrifice safety. And they kind of get in your way a bit. 

If static typing gets in your way then you probably use them wrong. They were supposed to help you. Btw, it's not static typing which limits "the realm of valid programs" - but the way you defined the types. You need to get used to them first by learning how to design them bottom-up.

&gt; But, I've personally found that, type errors are rare and caught early, quickly fixed, and generally have low impact.

They can be found early with a typechecker. With dynamic typing you need to test the living shit out of your code - which introduces a lot more code which's much harder to maintain. Major tech companies switch to statically typed languages too because they experience productivity issues when working with dynamic typing and large-scale software.

&gt; That's why dependant types are an area of research now, because the more harmful bugs are functional in nature, or they're memory related, or security related. Practical type systems don't yet cover those though.

Of course they do - look, we were talking about Rust in another thread. C++ can also help a bit. Nim can detect thread/resource issues at compile-time.

&gt; I'm aware of a few alternatives. Runtime contracts are one, popular in Clojure obviously and what Rich talks about in this talk.

spec? It's harder to write than unit tests...

&gt; Interactivity is another. This one is harder to grasp, but the ability to see the effect of your programs almost in realtime, and change propagate quickly helps a lot with functional correctness. So things like live programming, repl driven workflows, automated test runners on code change, etc.

That isn't going to work with complex deployments and multi-threaded programs. A REPL can help but why would I bother?

&gt; There's also runtime monitors/managers, not sure how to call it. But basically runtimes like garbage collectors, process supervisors, etc. The idea is that you have running programs monitor running programs for issues, and possibly have them perform recovery tasks for you. This would also include container software, auto scaling systems, serverless, etc. Even simple metric management like New Relic.

TL;DR: you complicate your software deployment, give up performance and also need to introduce much more dev tools to be able to use dynamic typing.

&gt; There's also safer code constructs. Things like immutability, iterators, safe pointers, pure functions, if/else, pattern matching, etc. Imagine still having to use goto for any kind of loop or control flow? That's an easy way to add accidental defects into your code.

Those things won't improve your code quality - they'll only improve your comfort.

&gt; Might be others, honestly, software is complex, in my experience defects are reduced when you take a multi-lateral approach and combine many of these techniques together.

And yet, you want to ignore the most basic and most useful technique - which is so important that certain domains wouldn't be able to work without it.

Yes, you're right, I'm trying to replace my code editor plugin.

Barrel shifters (able to shift by any number of bits) have higher critical path than full adders at that scale.

The shortest-path method I know of to implement a barrel shifter is in log2(nbits)+1 (or log2(log2(maxvalue))+1) controllable shifts. So for example, 32-bit would be 5 levels, 64 would be 6. You have one controllable layer for each bit of your shift value, and if that bit is set, it shifts by a fixed amount. If it's not set, it does not shift. In either case, the value proceeds to the next stage. [Diagram](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Moustafa_Khatib3/publication/269818702/figure/fig20/AS:295089327886355@1447366186535/Shifter-architectures-a-Logarithmic-shifter-b-Barrel-shifter.png)

A ripple-carry adder is obviously worse than this, but real adders use carry propagation, also referred to as carry-skip or carry-look-ahead, to precalculate carry values for specific regions and reduce the worst-case timing. The most stepwise-efficient (not gate-efficient) version of this that I know of (the kogg-stone) is actually identical in structure to a hillis prefix sum.

One example is a Kogge-Stone adder, which can implement the process in log2(bits) steps. This would also be a 5-level path. [Here's an example 8-bit kogg-stone adder](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/7/77/Kogge-stone-8-bit.png). Note that this is implemented using half-adders, which have a gate delay of 1, not 2 like full-adders.

This would make it seem that shifting is always as fast as adding, since they have the same number of logical levels, but each layer of the barrel shifter is implemented as a set of 2-choice multiplexers in parallel, which each have a longer critical path than a half adder. This means that while both have 5 levels, each level is of a different weight. 5 \* mux delay != 5 \* half-adder delay

The end result of this is that shifting up by 1 may be faster in an add, while shifting up by any other amount will be faster as a shift. Assuming, of course, that the CPU can handle variable-time instructions to that level of precision.

kind of: http://www.nagare.org/ exple: http://www.kansha.org/

It's also particularly weird that they felt the need to go out of their way to mess with OS configuration that have nothing to do with Node.js like Windows Update which is pretty much the last thing anyone should do (and if you do, it should be clearly warned and be a vetted process.) Node.js is basically a script kiddie galore with that culture and mindset.

Can you explain the difference between a emulator and VM?

&gt; Please keep submissions on topic and of high quality.

Even for a medium article, this was a new level of cringe.

Java bytecode doesn't use registers as seen by the lack of operands in the bytecode. It uses a stack to keep track of the variables. The stack can grow to sizes beyond any processors registerspace. No idea how the jvm translates that to machine code though.

Or use bootstrap and don't worry about the js and it's also 'pure' :)

Because we know how desperately he needs more subscribers.

In general you are right, sure. But I think, there are processes which are more predictable, more "dictate", they prevent such situations more early, I don;t know how to call it more accurate. It's like laws: people are not such cultural but they obey to laws, the same here - the review process leads to late solving of some problems. I remember my first jobs at 90s and we had not such problems never, but we had more planning, architectures who described us what and how we should do, very strong interfaces, etc. but no any reviews. And I don't know why, but people were more aimed to results than to refactore and play with abstractions, it's difficult to explain, but I remember that we accepted someone's decisions/solutions/architecture much easier. We wanted to get something really worked. May be the cause is in modern education, I don't know. But in my last 3 companies the review process leaded only to problems, so I suppose that there is right review and wrong review, but my IMHO is if some practice is so difficult to be used in right way, better is to replace it with something another - more simple, more strong, more effective.

6 weeks ago, max?

Here's an idea. What if law makers do their best to understand basic terminology?

👏👏

Yes, Tcl is a good example - its string substitution semantics makes it nearly impossible to compile it into anything efficient.

Python is another example - a bit better than Tcl, but still, way too dynamic. You can extract a more static subset though (see RPython).

Not first time... https://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2018/06/inventor-says-google-is-patenting-work-he-put-in-the-public-domain/

Where are your values Google ?

Don't assume I run my javascript on an OS man. Ever heard of embedded NodeJS?

Programmers don't need category theory, at all. You should only learn category theory if you're a mathematician who's bored and wants to know what a small group of autistic mathematicians are circlejerking about.

&gt;  If you look at Javascript - as the most popular (as in "nr. of installations") example - you have both interpreted as well as compiled code at the same time.

Nope. You cannot *statically* compile Javascript. You can do some smart JIT optimisations, of course, which in some fringe cases may be efficient (as in, just an order of magnitude slower than the statically compiled languages).

&gt; The JS runtime in a modern browser is not, as an example for where that black/white view fails quite miserably.

Nope. Still very clear distinction - you cannot compile Javascript without all the *runtime* information available.

Thanks for the detailed explanation! I admit I hadn't thought through such details at any great depth.

&gt; **TypeScript – was it worth?** 

Yes :)

After some looking, Java does specify behavior of integer overflows. C/C++ do not, specifically so they can make assumptions like this.

Just a reminder that this emulator does not run anywhere close to the real time performance (all 8MHz of it). Not even in the KHz range.

Java for loosers

I'm not really in the know about every single nuance of it, but the main difference here is that a Virtual Machine is designed to run on the Platform you're running it on, you can't Virtualise an ARM Operating System on an x86 machine because all instructions are passed down to the CPU itself to be run in a true Virtual environment, where as an Emulator interprets compiled source code (that's usually bytecode or raw cpu instructions) and interprets / translates that (if you're looking at JIT or the like) into something your processor can actually understand.

There's also no real way for "direct pass through" of a lot of hardware, there needs to be a communication layer in code specifically between the two, any code in your emulator that is specifically say trying to call an NVIDIA API, needs to be interpreted in your emulator, then sent off to your Operating System and then back into the emulator, where as a Virtual Machine can have direct access to that card through VFIO or IOMMU

You could make a case that an Emulator is a Type-2 Hypervisor in a way, but this is mostly only true with actual hardware virtualisation is occurring.

It's a pretty thin line to walk when you're looking at it from the outside honestly, but under the hood some differences do become apparent, and even I don't know the true extent of all of it myself, which I why I said it's really only a nitpick.

It's surprising how many good optimisations are blocked by rules like this that the programmer almost certainly doesn't care about breaking in the normal case. It's even more of a problem with floating point operations. There are flags like `-ffast-math` for C and C++ that permit the compiler to break these rules though (often accumulating extra imprecision as a result).

He made no reference to location, so I think his point is more along the lines that trying to cut corners on software is a bad idea. So if he's saying anything about European developers, it's that you can't get the one good ones for cheap.

Looked it up. You're right. SHL seems to takes 3 cycles on 386 and 2 cycles on a 486 (which given we're taking 2 or 1 cycle for an add, that's quite a lot). It's also a byte longer but nobody cares about that.

On a 286, shift left is 5+n  cycles, which I guess means 8 cycles for shifting 3 places.

Blazor Fiddle now in stage Alpha 3. Main feature of this stage is Really FAST COMPILATION (now in Experimental mode). Later - more. =) [https://blazorfiddle.com/](https://blazorfiddle.com/)

The issue is what happens if someone bails on their degree for a job that doesn't work out? They're now left with no job and no degree and the next job search becomes even harder. It's smart to play it safe and finish up the degree.

Use code quality checkers, code standard checking, and static code analyzers. If a given language toolchain does not have either of these then re-think if the language is a good fit for whatever you're doing.

&gt; I think you're trying to portray me like a zealot, but that's just a complete misrepresentation.

It isn't, because you're ignoring the benefits of static typing because you love clojure unconditionally and act like it's without defects.

&gt; I use an array of languages, and I would use statically typed languages in certain situations. I'd also use dynamic ones. It's the pro static type evangelists that are the real zealots. I mean look at the OP's comment that started this whole thread:

You should also look at your comment above. You've zero rational arguments - it's 100% speculation and ignorance:

"I think if static types made a discernable difference, it'd be long discerned and those languages wouldn't be around anymore."

&gt; How disingenuous and disrespectful is this comment? That's the sign of a true zealot to me.

But it's true. You dynamic typing zealots are unable to argue with rational arguments. Instead, you talk about how hard it is to work with correct data layout. How unprofessional is that?

&gt; You mention Nim, Rust and Idris. Okay, which one do you want to discuss? 

Any of them.

&gt; Or are you just ignoring the comment I replied too arguing that static type evangelists always promote the union of the benefits of all typed languages?

No, but you sound very ignorant. I replied to OP's comment too - saying that you can choose any of these languages and they will still be able to provide much more than dynamic typing.

&gt; You want to talk about Idris? Okay, I love Idris. I'm a huge fan of Idris, Liquid Haskell, and F*. Neither are in a state where I can realistically bring them to my team and depend on them commercially. They also bring a pretty big overhead in terms of productivity, but that could just be me still getting a better grip with them.

Is that all you can say? That's not much. It's actually nothing. You were supposed to talk about the benefits it can introduce - not that you can't use it. It sounds like you're actually just lying. Most of your comments are about your love towards clojure - I doubt that you can use any other language, let alone knowing how to use a statically typed language.

&gt; What about Nim? I mean, Nim, really? Its type system is nowhere the same league as Idris and Rust, I'm confused why you bring it up?

Nim can do things at compile-time what Rust can't do: like detect data races at compile-time(without linear types by parallel scopes and a high-level thread/GC model), infer effects(you know what's an effect system, right?) and errors, unify types by structural abstractions and provide very high-level and zero-cost abstractions when working with resources(and manually allocated memory - easier to work with low-level domains where you need memory regions) - similar to C++'s solutions.

&gt;  It also has a garbage collector.

Garbage collector**s**. By default it uses a defered RC with a tracing GC to collect cyclic references(Rust can barely do that)  per thread. It can use the mark-and-sweep GC too which can improve performance. You can tweak the GC however you want. You can also use semi-automatic memory management too with template scopes and manual memory management.

&gt; So what about Nim?

It's a much more advanced statically typed language than the average. It's not targeting low-level domains like Rust but it's a much more productive language and it's also better against leaks.

&gt; Alright, Rust is my second favourite language currently after Clojure. Static memory guarantees are a whole other ballgame. When I need critical performance, Rust is my go to. Obviously I wouldn't build a browser in Clojure.

Then why do you say bullshit like this:

"I think if static types made a discernable difference, it'd be long discerned and those languages wouldn't be around anymore." - ?

&gt; How am I ignoring it?

"I think if static types made a discernable difference, it'd be long discerned and those languages wouldn't be around anymore."

&gt; If you have system programming experience, well, I can't even think of a single system level language without static types.
 C might be the closest in that it doesn't particularly have a very powerful one. But like why are we even arguing in this case. Go use Rust or stick with C.

Then why are you acting like static typing didn't make a "discernable difference"?

&gt; Maybe TypeScript, I havn't used it, but I do know its type system is unsound.

That's not the biggest issue - it's the fact that it needs to work with a weakly-typed runtime.

&gt; So why not Bucklescript and OCaml, or ClojureScript?

So since ts's typesystem is not perfect everyone should switch to cljscript - which can't guarantee anything? Makes sense!

&gt; And if you were using Node, and care about safety and now security too, just don't. Use the JVM, or the CLR, or the Beam, or GHC, or Go.

Go. Really?

&gt; If you had a bad experience with X, and X lacked types, don't think the lack of types was the entire root cause.

Except when you know that the problem with X is that it couldn't provide anything because of dynamic typing. As I said, you're ignoring the benefits of static typing.

&gt; And to that, I'm arguing Clojure as a whole is a really productive and mostly safe language. Much more productive and safer than many statically typed languages.

That doesn't say much.

It's the same time span we've had nuclear power. I don't think anyone is arguing that nuclear is "immature."

*Edit:* grammar

How can you do the groceries, wash your stuff, clean your apartment and cook with 2-3 hours and programming on top of that? :(

Absolutely, but the question remains why it's so large to begin with. Things like Pure have basically the same features but clock in at a drastically smaller size.

I had this in Java just the other day on my 4790k. Sorting before processing costed around 400ms and made the loop run from 90s to 30s.

Thank you!

&gt; That's pushing it a little. I'm only saying that static types havn't shown a clear and undeniable benefit, and that's why we're all here arguing about it.

You're not honest. And it's very clear:

You also said that Rust is your 2nd favorite language and that you are aware of its benefits. You also mentioned that you tried Idris, F* etc. and you know what's up with them. There are too much paradoxes in your comments

&gt; Type driven design is fun, and static guarantees are highly satisfying. But as much as I have feelings of interest and safety with regards to static type systems, I can not say they are justified, because *I have no data to justify them with*.

Forgetting Rust again? And all the programming domains which are strictly limited to statically typed languages?

&gt; The small data I have seem to show Clojure as an outlier in the dynamic world, and that static type systems in general bring only minimal benefits in terms of defects, while having a small impact on productivity.

Where is that data?

&gt; This leads me to the conclusion that you need to judge a language as a whole. Because many parts might each contribute more or less to productivity and safety, and it is when you sum them all that big benefits are gained or lost.

Yes: but the thing is that *dynamic typing will never be able to guarantee anything because it's dynamic typing* - try to argue against this. Yes, you can have good productivity but you can't talk about safety with them. You'll be forced to use external, non-standard and unsound tools to improve your safety - while also giving up productivity and performance.

You're either aware of the benefits and you're trying to ignore them to push your agenda, or you were just lying when you said that you know Rust and similar languages. As I said, you're not honest.

Your available choices are:

1. do a job of work yourself

2. buy a raptor which you then train to do the job.

When the raptor starts eating people instead of doing the job, it is always possible to describe the failure as 'inadequate training'. 

Whereas quite likely it is actually impractical to train a raptor in that way, so the project was doomed at the point the 'buy a raptor' decision was made.

&amp;#x200B;

Category theory is not ‘needed’ by programmers, but it is extremely useful, illuminating and interesting.

How is jQuery making things a hell of a lot easier today? There are many alternatives to most of its most commonly used features: querying the DOM, making AJAX requests, animation, etc. It's a blob of uncorrelated functionality where it pays off (performance-wise) to replace it with pure JavaScript, or smaller, more specialized libraries.

I've tried python's typehints. They didn't live up to my lowered expectations.

I think he didn't understand that a major version release doesn't equal stopping maintenance on older, still widely used versions.

What you can observe in Hickey's talks is that he doesn't like static typing and instead of showing better solutions in dynamic typing he just tries to attack static typing with very weak arguments. He doesn't like testing and yet he recommends using external tools to achieve quality instead of using advanced typesystems. For pro-dynamic typing people the quality of his arguments don't seem to matter.

&gt;most languages use an awful joke of what they call OOP

Like that damn Ruby!

Or move the old algorithm into your test suite, and check that both give the same results.

Good attempt to write a summary of differences and similarities!

\&gt; Ada (please, correct me, if I'm wrong) compiler can detect infinite loops and to raise warning, Haskell - never.

Maybe an Ada compiler can detect infinite loops sometimes, but as an Ada developer I would say no in the general case. If one wants assurances of terminating loops one has to look to SPARK.

\&gt; Good is to compare Ada GC with GC of other language

By GC I guess you mean Garbage Collector? Ada was designed to support GC but no compiler vendor ever did that as far as I know. The most flexible way one can achieve memory safety in Ada is memory pools/subpools (perhaps better known as Arena pools?). Another way to achieve memory safety in Ada is to go stack only by forbidding heap allocations. How to achieve memory safety in Ada is a lengthy topic.

&amp;#x200B;

I prefer to use the term PR (Public Relations) instead of propaganda since propaganda is for use in war-time and PR is used in peace-time. For elaboration on that topic I heartily recommend the documentary "Century of the Self" and one can find it on Youtube.

I don't think it can be "fixed". There are too many addicted profiteers in the system. Why should patent attorneys want to have less revenue?

The patent system is totally broken from A to Z, not just in regads to software but look at the s*** of patents in the life sciences. CRISPR/Cas9 has been invented by bacteria yet humans have been given the exclusive right of control for CRISPR-related genetic engineering (e. g. in particular being able to do site-specific changes, which works easier with CRISPR than it does with most other techniques, if we exclude off-target reactions). This is a form of slavery since the patent holders can restrict what others do. I consider this significantly more problematic than the patent on PCR, which I consider a "better" patent than the one on CRISPR/Cas9 (but even that shouldn't be in the way it has been).

But no worries - the system won't be changed with the way how indirect "democracy" works. 

Politicians are lobbyists too.

You'd actually need a real revolution for change.

Come back when there is something like SPARK for that Rust toy of yours.

The correct type documentation won't be enforced by typehints from the code comments.

In statically type languages I only need to write about the function's nature - the types will be generated(correctly) into the docs - which's a huge help while reading them. Even if I don't write down the types and use type inference - the type signature will still be correct in the docs - less work, more docs, better discoverability.

For example, when I open the docs most of them time it's enough for me to look at the function's name and type signature to use them properly - while in dynamic typing you need to try it in the REPL first or just try to guess the arguments' types - this is not convenient at all. The type signature is also a huge help when I use context-aware code completion.

Just FYI: Typical 6502’s ran at 1MHz-2MHz (more likely half NTSC or PAL rate)
Z80 had to run harder to gleam the same processing power.

Is the programming equivalent of the [retro encabulator?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RXJKdh1KZ0w)

**The question wasn’t asking how to parse HTML.** It was asking how to pattern-match HTML tags, which doesn’t require any contextual understanding of HTML format (apart from it being well-formed, which any SGML/XML parser will also assume), and is consequently an okay match for regular expressions.

That’s why that post is so emblematic of problems with SO: the answer wasn’t just saying “don’t do that,” but “don’t do something you aren’t trying to do in the first place”. Which isn’t just condescendingly arrogant, it’s also ignorant.

Have you ever read a company mission statement? They're all full of arbitrary terms with no legal definitions.

I use C# as my preferred language, and I have passion.  I'm also in it for money, because I have bills and like staying alive.

That's not a solution.

I really hate the dogmatic case against the use of cat. For me it gives me a standard way to kickstart my pipeline, I don't have to worry how the second command receives its arguments, are they listed at the end? does it support more than a single file? What if I wan't to insert a new command before the second? I don't want to worry about moving the input list to this new command and worry about all these things again.

As long as I can be reasonably sure that the command accepts stdin, I can just fire cat with the list of input files and play with the pipeline until I get my desired output

The games were successful back in the days.

I guess today they are not really attracting many folks, but back then it was not only the games - it sort of was new in many regards, especially the adventure-type ones like King's Quest, Space Quest, and Leisure Suit Larry (in particular the first one which seemed quite new in style to me back then; the later ones improved on the graphics gameplay but it was quite different from the first ones).

Yes - in an ideal world.  
But we are not making it easy for them. Cloud means 'a computer some arbitrary place', Artificial Intelligence means 'algorithms that take their environment into consideration' and Machine Learning means 'applied statistics'.  

Our whole terminology is geared towards marketing and investments, not explaining what it is and does.

They create their own standard. Fragmentation is part of their evil plot.

Yep, sure, that's a typo. Still, transistor-level simulation does not even reach KHz ranges.

He is being downvoted because his statement is incorrect.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leisure_Suit_Larry#Series

Leisure Suit Larry was a success back then, so the statement "as shit as his games" is simply incorrect. So of course he is being downvoted.

Superficially, yes.  The agile process is good at delaying decisions.  But the idea in agile is that taking decisions early leads to bad decisions because ppl generally don't know what they should build.

That's not the case here.  Or it's only superficially true.

In this story, we have two parties, one professional and one amateur, and the professional exploits that the amateur doesn't know how to specify how to build a house.  The professional knows full well that the amateur will likely not be satisfied with the $50k house.

In this case I think what the amateur should look for is "has this professional been successful in dealing with amateurs previously".  If the amateur analyzes the offers in this light, the $50k offers would likely fail as they can't provide documentation to this effect.

Category theory is an esoteric field of math that has had very little use in real life. Perhaps one day it may be useful, but today is not that day. A knowledge of category theory does little or nothing at all for your programming skills.

I’d be curious to see the performance of the C version compared to the C++ code, and maybe even an article on how to achieve greater performance possibly

Java Script? Java is NOT the same as JavaScript.

I coded my bot in Python. To get started I used this [website](https://www.devdungeon.com/content/make-discord-bot-python).

I also used the Discord.py documentation which can be found at [this site](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html).

The suggested solution is to give awards for inventions. This is a really bad idea. Imagine if restaurants are not paid by clients but are paid by a central committee made up of "food experts".

&gt; Because the position was meant to bring in Node experience, I chose to implement the challenge in Node.

&gt;According to the recruiter, the sample was "technically correct, but they didn't like the choice of language"

When I thought I had heard it all in stupid hiring practices.

id rather learn it then implementing some rest endpoint mutating fuck knows what

A true battleroyale of shitty hacks, TODOs and copy pasting from stackoverflow!

Writing in assembly [is not going to save you](https://eli.thegreenplace.net/2013/12/03/intel-i7-loop-performance-anomaly/). ([here's an explanation of what is probably going on](https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/1s066i/intel_i7_loop_performance_anomaly/cdsuhh2/))

Huh? You must have overlooked this:

`Student[] studentArray = studentList.toArray(new Student[0]);`

It's being simplified to:

`Student[] studentArray = studentList.toArray(Student[]::new);`

&amp;#x200B;

Now I can quickly type two of the same character `::` in succession, rather than `space` and `0`. Neat.

That solution is much more complicated and also ugly. Your Scala code is also very invalid: your function is missing the `def`, your arguments parameters would be only valid in java and you declared the class in a weird way. Here:

    case class Car(make: String, model: Option[String] = None, year: Option[Int] = None)
    def getNewerThan(cars: Seq[Car], year: Int) = cars.filter(_.year.exists(_ &gt; year))

You can also avoid the construction pollution:

    implicit def tpToOption[T](t: T): Option[T] = Some(t)
    val car = Car("Car1", "bx1", 2) // "bx1" and "2" will be still Options and you'll know that from the typedef

https://youtu.be/ycvlJ9XMd94

Next ~~meme~~ print

I was talking about most programmers. Being on this site makes us special.

&gt; They might debate their details, but they don't argue against their complete use.

Yes, details matter a lot - as you said in your other comment. But wait - are you arguing against the complete use of static typing? Because you also said that you like Rust and understand its benefits...

`Why do programmers still type like it’s 1962?`

To be honest a five x performance gain is good enough to justify at least doing some research and experimenting with a poc on whatever a rilfnorp or whatever is. A 5x response time is the difference between a silky smooth web service and a completely unmanageable piece of shit.

You make software development cheaper by not writing bugs. Only evaluating the surface encourages leaving out the insulation.

An absence of bugs can only be shown via formal proof or exhaustive automated testing. Proving code even finds wrong assumptions that would normally only be found when adding some new feature, so it reduces the need for refactoring.

Few programmers are willing to write proofs and not all code has an easy to define correct behaviour. But all other ways of enforcing correctness require reading a lot of code *and* give flaky results.

Houses are difficult to evaluate as well. You'd have to break open some walls to even attempt to check if the pipes in them are welded properly. But you wouldn't contract the people who built the house to fix it if they did a poor job.

State-funded construction projects often do pay the same people until the job is done. That is probably why those tend to go over budget.

I can send print jobs to a university printer in any department or lecture hall/lab that has one and retrieve the print out later. I find that eminently practical. 

Those printers are behind a firewall in a VPN behind a firewall though.

I always thought that fictional computer architectures in software (having no reference hardware) are called Virtual Machines and the others are called Emulators? I clearly remember someone saying it. It kinda made sense.

&gt; Me for example, I really prefer Clojure over C++ (though I love C++ too, but more as a masochistic experience). 

Would you write a browser in C++ or Clojure?

Edit:

&gt;  "Static types and nothing less." Like, get out of here.

You guys are literally trying to mimic a static typesystem's benefits in clojure with core.typed and spec...

Winsxs is a monstrosity where Microsoft said "let's end all version incompatibility by letting every application ask to install the exact version it wants!"a common reason this folder swells is directX for steam games, installed 50 times so each game has the exact version it was built against. Install a lot of applications and winsxs will balloon with redundant copies of net frameworks and directx etc. And the funny part is of the 50 you'll end up with I'd be surprised if you needed more than 2 versions to achieve 100% compatibility.

Very nice 👍

Would be extra usefull if you could load a file with log entries that you **should** be alerted of.

So along with the `baseline` file for ignoring entries, you have a `warnme` file with entries that should never be ignored. Bonus if those entries are displayed in another colour.

Is this about React hooks?

Applicable to many cases though

Most new features in Java literally are syntactic sugar. Most things that look like new features are just ways of telling the java compiler to generate Producer, Consumer, etc instances so you don’t have to write the code yourself. Python and JS runtimes support first-class functions so there’s no need to generate a class every time you use a lamda function.

[From 1978 to current,](http://ref.x86asm.net/coder32.html) the number of instructions goes from [92 16-bit operands to close to 700 64-bit ones.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X86_instruction_listings).

Addition of floating point, 32bit then 64bit extensions and the various SSE instructions was a large expansion, although one can claim that the floating point was more of taking the existing co-processor and sticking it on the same die.

The clock increase from 4mhz to close to 5ghz, a few orders of magnitude is mind blowing along with [CISC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Complex_instruction_set_computer) to a CISC-like processor, which is the same instruction set in but internally a separate RISC, VLIW cpu.

The current processor has the instruction decode in front of a [VLIW risc back end.  The P5 / P6 arch. pipeline and superscalar arch. drive a lot of the performance.](https://cs.stanford.edu/people/eroberts/courses/soco/projects/risc/risccisc/)

[The best resource, right from Intel, the Software Developer's Manual](https://www.intel.com/content/dam/www/public/us/en/documents/manuals/64-ia-32-architectures-software-developer-vol-1-manual.pdf)

EDIT: [Another Optimization Page - Great Stuff](https://www.agner.org/optimize/)

I'd recommend writing a RV32I emulator. RV32I stands for RISC-V 32bit Integer which is the most basic version of RISC-V and only has ~55opcodes to implement.
Once you've written the emulator, you can use riscv64-unknown-elf-gcc to compile your C/++ programs to RV32I.
While there also exists a C compiler for LC-3, getting to know the RISC-V architecture has the advantage that you learn something that exists in the real-world.

&gt; It's a printer; it's job is to print and a firmware update is unlikely to change that. Just take your printer behind a firewall or router.

Because every IPv4 router does NAT, there has been a technical limitation that prevented people from accessing even unsecured devices in peoples networks. Now thanks to IPv6, all those devices are suddenly reachable over the internet

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xP5-iIeKXE8

You can apologize and still disagree 😂

Yeah, but if he had read the article it would have explained this.

I haven't checked it out yet but from the excessive detour that fixed point theory was, vis proving while statements terminate or not, or wtv other simple, easy to prove bullshitery facts about computation, I'm getting the idea it's just a serpent eating its own tail. At least calculus, analysis, mayrix algebra and even number theory yielded useful stuff. This category/ type theory stuff just seems  like adding some verification to programs, and functional programming seems like too much of a performance obsfucation restriction to be worth the trouble.
But hey. Thousands of humans use this stuff. So it either makes sense, or its mass delusion.

&gt; That solely depends on the definition of the words used.

No. Whether a language is compiled or interpreted is an implementation detail.

People have written interpreters for C. And Dart which is usually JIT compiled can be also AOT compiled.

Appealing to a field of mathematics ‘use in real life’ is a woefully poor argument.

Category theory has been used by many programmers working on big problems. What you’re saying is just false. 

To what level have you studied category theory to make this judgement of it?

You can learn about cool, actually useful algorithms.

&gt; how to achieve greater performance

[JIT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Just-in-time_compilation)

Waiting for the "we lost tons of data" blog post.

I am sorry, but is this honestly still a topic in nearly 2019??

Who is this PewDiePie guy and what's the point with subscribing to his youtube channel? I totally don't get it. Reddit's front page is constantly spammed with unfunny memes with him.

Interesting read, but not really _programming_ related. It's more about server architecture and microservices.

The very last paragraph:
&gt; There is a lot more trickery that goes on behind the scenes: as this interview explains, whenever you hit play on a show, Netflix will locate the 10 closest Open Connect boxes that have the show loaded on them. Your Netflix app/site will then try to detect which one of them is the closest or works fastest on your internet connection, and then load video from there. This is why videos start out blurry but then suddenly sharpen up — that is Netflix switching servers till it connects to the one that will give you the highest quality of video.

That's really interesting to know - I always assumed it was because they were measuring my speed for a while before turning up the quality.

There are now 15 death ray machines.

It’s kind of hard to not read feedback and depending on your context and state it can be immensely depressing. Everyone reacts differently there.

One must wonder about the sheer arrogance of dismissing a field you know absolutely nothing about.

But does your embedded NodeJS have access to the DOM? Oh I'm sorry, you were being so edgy and I ruined it.

Not permanent. 

Edit: well, it isn't. No matter how much you downvote me it won't make what I said untrue. Pretty disappointed with this sub now, thought you were better than this.

Add a recursive garbage collector... 😜😝

&gt;In reality, the 5x performance gain is usually a lie and because your engineers will be initially much worse at using the "rilfnorp" you will likely build something that is worse than what you had before.  
&gt;  
&gt;Of course no one will realize that until it is too late to turn back.

Except that a lot of what jQuery was made for works just fine in regular JavaScript these days. You may or may not need React, but you probably don't need jQuery.

100% agree. Unless you plan on staying in academia (surely unlikely given how well paid programming is) there is usually no point getting a PhD.

To be perfectly fair, they have pretty much said that they stopped supporting 3: https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/issues/22343

For example: "We stop supporting old versions as soon as the new one comes out honestly."

Or https://github.com/boxed/instar

Nice find. Seems like they didn't intend to pay attention to older versions but they realized v3 is going to continue to be a lot more used than v4 for a some time to come.

#MEME REVIEW

Yet modern computers can't still run emacs: https://github.com/syl20bnr/spacemacs/issues/11622

&gt;&gt; are you really suggesting that a ~2Ghz dual core with 8 Gb of RAM is not powerful enough to edit files containing 1000 lines of code ?
&gt;
&gt; Yes. Spacemacs (emacs) isn't terribly efficient

That's a very talented 9 year old.

&gt; The niche created by JS haters is quite big.

Except for the most part, that niche is not filled by users - it's filled by developers. 

&gt; Also there is no contradiction in GraphQL and Razor Components existing simultaneously.

I'm not saying there is - I'm merely pointing out that they both seem centered on fixing problems _most_ people don't really have, or don't care enough to tackle the extra baggage that comes with them to solve their problems.

&gt; If you think about it Razor Components will also reduce the number of requests (for most apps) compared to REST endpoints although sometimes the cost will be sending more data.

Don't you mean the other way around? Ie, smaller payload, more requests?

Is there a native Make available for Windows without WSL and Cygwin?

That doesn't happen in *Christian* societies.

Well, from your second link:

&gt; The usual process is to write an interpreter for a language, L, in some **other** existing language.

There is no interpreter that can run Java source code, that is not also implemented partially in Java. They all rely on javac/ecj.

I was just joking, I wasn't implying you made a grammatical error. And as a Slav, I can agree that coming from a language without articles is hard.

Literally literally means figuratively.

They call me the CPU whisperer

Exactly

Who cares about the line count, as long as you don’t have too much actual code doing too many things in one class/file? My line counts are always inflated because of whitespace and copious amounts of comments (I like to write comment descriptions of what my code will do before I write it). Extra brackets for some if statements are not a major contributor to line counts for me and, I suspect, for most people. And line counts don’t really matter anyway, like I said above.

So what? From an utilitarian perspective, I could say the same thing about my thesis. About a lot of fields actually. Yes science is many small steps towards knowledge, but it can be argued that many of them are clearly not walking to the closest successes.

Yah, cause there's no real hardware to emulate. JVM, LLVM, etc

Funny coincidence. I contracted for a product design firm about 3.5 years ago in Bay Area. The firm was being contracted by Google to build an LED book. I didn't work on the project, but the guy who sat behind me did.  The first prototype was made of thinly laminated flex PCB. I vaguely recall there being some interesting mechanical problems with it. The book was really really thick.

There's a bit of a difference between mountains of shitty JS you have to write and static JS that is shipped as part of a solution.

When has he said anything negative about testing? I feel like he mentions it as a given usually. And he made spec which has a big testing component to it.

&gt; I however do not concede that it makes enough of a difference to affect the end result in 90% of the applications.

So you're saying that an app that depends on the server for UI events and another that depends on the server for CRUD operations are equally impacted? Okay. 

I think that most users would probably be understanding if they can't send their tweet or like a post because they're in a tunnel. On the other hand, if the whole app freezes just because they lost connection to the server, they'd probably assume that something's wrong with the app itself.

To be frank, I really don't see the use case for something like this, even in intranet applications. There are already tried and tested solutions for most of the problems you mentioned.

Maybe I’m totally off-base here, but the blurriness is not from locating the correct open connect box it’s due to the Adaptive Bit Rate doing its job. My understanding of ABR is the server is found, the UI player loads the manifest file (MPEG-DASH or HLS), the player loads the lowest quality files due to a low buffer, and once the buffer starts to fill up, the res switcher in the player will get the proper files based on what bit rate it can handle.

&gt; If this was a sincere apology you would delete your post

Me apologizing doesn't change the fact that I still want interested people to reach this post. Your correlation with apology and post deletion makes no sense.  
I started using reddit on a daily basis for 2 weeks and already have a strong opinion about how many rude people complaining about post's subjects on certain sub's. There's absolutely nothing wrong with comenting politely on a post and then leading the person, kindly, to a most appropriate sub. This is not what many of you do, you just spit some "rules" and give salty comment such as

&gt; If you need a definition of programming

Bro I'm a computing scientist graduate. I found the bug discovery very curious and thought it might interest other people related to the area, thats all.

Again, sorry if it bothered you to the point where you simply COULDN'T just keep scrolling.

"Should Have Used Ada" =&gt; "Should Have Used Any Language That Enforces Brackets" :P

Just saying that it's not a great example to explain the safety advantages of Ada in particular. IMHO.

https://mingw-w64.org/doku.php

Well you can still drop HTML containing your own JS onto the page which should be easily debuggable using Chrome. 

But the purpose of Blazor is that the JS will be limited to bare minimum you need to do basic things and is not the basis for entire applications. 

Having had to debug shitty Angular apps - it's way harder to debug when there is a lot of mysticism and magic going on to hide you from implementation details.

Oh and btw, you're attacking the person, and your argument is... That I know nothing of the field, and yet I have researched enough to not find it being widely used for something practical.

I work in HW, and I’ll tell you how HW folk use the jargon: *simulation* is software implemented machine virtualization; *emulation* is HW-accelerated machine virtualization.

one of the interesting things about being ”that guy” on the internet in general, and stackexchange in specific, is that it is *not* sufficient to know the answer in perfect detail.

one must be able to communicate the answer to one's target audience, give appropriate depth of information while keeping it focused and interesting *and* one must be able to do so very quickly... before somebody else does if one hopes for notice or any sort of credit.

it's that last bit about competitive quickness that is the kicker for me, and why i prefer to write internal tech documents, mentor, and write the occasional long form post and/or the even rarer article. i've never really cared about that type of competition, and it's probably held me back professionally. it's also why i usually get handed the really fucking bizarre heisenbugs^\*

^\* one danger of being an older techie is having stories you feel compelled to tell, such as about the bug i was handed 7 days before a hard launch where the embedded device would malfunction five minutes later, spaz, crash, and get reset by the hw keep-alive timer, but *only* if our ops guy would look at it from across the room... 

the previous two teams spent the previous two months trying to figure it out, and had at one point *everyone* in the department like up and stand at the far side of the room, stand in different places, take measurements, etc... scientific, even. at one point after hours on a late night rumor has it they even had the ops guy get nekkid to eliminate something he was wearing, and stand on his head to eliminate his orientation. each test was taking around 15-20 minutes to run.

then *i* get pulled from the other side of the project and handed this, along with a pile of meticulous notes. three things jumped out at me: 

1. 15-20 minutes per iteration was far, far too slow when looking for this type of bug, especially as it was constantly interrupting the ops guy from doing useful ops things or practicing smoking in anger.

2. system logs weren't right, were sporadic and strange, the previous teams hadn't set up remote debugging, or even a directly connected serial console. they were relying on the wifi for accessing the device.

3. the ops guy was really, *really* big. like enormous. maybe a bit hefty for his 6' 5” height, but not obese. think like someone that has to be careful in doorways so as to avoid breaking them on accident.

first thing first... let's get a local console going, get a debugger cross compiled, set up remote debugging. 

next, let's have ops (ok, he was only 1/4 of ops, but 7/8 by size)  go look at the device and see if i can't get some form of state capture so i don't have to spend 20 minutes causing this thing to crash and annoying to ops guy^†

hmm... syslog fires before everything goes ass over teakettle, but it's only half written and garbled. the device loses network *just* before finishing writing out logs. *the stacktrace is very, very strange and far longer than it should be. hmmm...

i have ops set up a wifi analyser so we can look at what is happening when the network drops. for a brief couple of seconds, rssi is all over the place, *when the ops guy is looking at the device from across the room*. the really, *really big* ops guy. i ask ops where the ap is, he points to the wall behind him and off to his left. i'm starting to get an idea.

so we try again, except with little 'ol me holding on to 7 feet of the heavy duty aluminum foil from the canteen. the device crashed! great! we're making headway.

sketchy wifi shouldn't be making the device die, but it is. *and* we have a corrupt system log. *and* a corrupt stacktrace.

turns out, our wifi driver had an incomplete snprintf for an unstable network warning, and was missing passing a parameter (in this case, the string, ”wifi'. this corrupted the return address, which caused shit to hit the fan inside a kernel function *inside* syslog(). this would muck things screwing up the syslog services internal state and causing *our* process to die.

our system management daemon would asynchronously fire off a few calls to syslog(), start the wifi monitor again, which calls syslog() on start, *then* fired off a warning about an unstable network, causing this whole process to repeat until the kernel ran out of resources and froze.

the fix? eliminating an unnecessary %s from our error formatting, and replacing it with the string, ”wifi”.

now you might ask why i told this take here. if you do, i'd tell you that there's a lesson to be learned here: you don't have to be smarter or quicker than everyone else to be the miracle worker. you have to be persistent and love what you do, and the rest will follow. nah, i'm screwing will you: i regaled you will this anecdote because i was bored. 

but seriously, it's not about being a hotshot, it's about being interested in what you do. 

^† of course, i had to have a *bit* of fun: i made him hold a few ballet poses. the ops guy is smart (and he knows me well) so it only took him twenty minutes to realize i was fucking with him.

Search engines, in order to be useful, basically must be able to deal with SPA style applications, because programmers keep writing them. The benefits are still pretty huge, and sometimes SEO is not that important. It is definitely an evolving aspect, but as far as I am aware, e.g. Google Search is based on some forked version of Chrome that renders the page for analysis, so even SPAs should be searchable with e.g. GS as long as they are written well enough.

The initial render is relatively terrible in JavaScript. I can only hope that people have the patience to wait that 1 second or something like that before they give up and go away. Some tricks help, like marking all the web fonts as being swappable so that they don't block initial content rendering, and maybe you'd want to http/2 push to send all data before client manages to ask for it, and so on.

On the other hand, once the initial download and render gets done, many page views can potentially occur without any further network traffic, and those that do need more data can be quite compact in terms of response size, typically much smaller than any comparable HTML would be. Still, given the use of gzip compression, I think most of the time the difference between JSON and HTML is not that great on the wire. Both formats would end up having highly regular structure which should compress very well. Of course, the technology in the article is based on transferring HTML initially, running a piece of JavaScript to upgrade connection to WebSockets, and then using JSON on the wire (and quite well optimized JSON at that).

As an example for why I think SPAs have their place: I recently wrote a simple SVG-based editor for drawing floor plans of client sites in an application. You can create walls (curved and straight lines), drag object library entries like tables, and move any anchor point of an object, and resize and scale them). The page makes no network traffic until you press save, and at that time, a JSON structure of objects, points, and relationships between objects and points get transmitted. I would kind of hate doing this with server being pinged a hundred times every time you do some drag and drop to move, rotate or scale the object.

I do write tests.

Yeah, then there's me I already removed jQuery and I'm ready for Bootstrap 5.

I once joked in an interview, "please don't steal my code".  They laughed.  I didn't get the job.  That company is now about 100x bigger than it was back then.

That's a pretty decent point actually, guess you can't actually have a a full fat VM of a platform that doesn't exist.

Facebook used a monadic architecture to build the system which fights spam and thus processes every single user action on the 3rd biggest site in the world.

Category theory is being used in industry. The claim it does nothing practical is either a lie or betrays your utter ignorance.

Of course it's unrealistic, it's not meant to be the most optimized or l33t script in the world.  People that are new to unix need to start out with clear, concise examples that are easy to understand even if it's not the most optimal way to perform the task.  Over the years you learn shortcuts and ways to do things more efficiently but somebody just starting out is going to be overwhelmed by that.

Jenkins is like democracy, the worst CI/CD tool except for all the others.

Even then there are enough annoyances that make building a non-trivial pipeline hard (and if your pipeline is trivial any CI/CD tool works equally well). For example, there's no native way to lock some resource for several consecutive stages. You can work around that by wrapping them in another stage, but then you cannot parallelize them.

The guy almost certainly wrote notes for the talk. How hard would it be to post those?

Citus does a lot of cool stuff, but it's rarely updated. For instance, columnar stores are very useful for large denormalized data sets, and they do offer an extension that enables columnar store for Postgresql, but it does not compete with the fastest performing databases out there, like Vertica or ClickHouse. Postgresql 11 has added more parallelization in queries, so you can partition the data as you like, and do parallel scans on partitions, but Citus's columnar store extension is still not marked as parallel safe, which is just 4 lines of code, that would make it's performance at least approach that of ClickHouse.

yes

Woman's lack of interest in tech is no one's problem but their own

Whoa.

They should patent generics

Sometimes the use for something is not immediately obvious, but it is worth looking into further.  If credible sources in the industry seem to be finding something extremely useful, it is sometimes worth looking further than just introductory material before assuming that it's of no use to you.

There are plenty of things that are hype, but disregarding everything popular because "it's probably just hype" is just as short-sighted as blindly following the hype and implementing everything that's cool right now.

Sure. All I'm saying is "If your use case requires a level of performance where you're actively fighting your compiler's optimisation algorithms, one option you might consider is choosing a different language."

Just keep in mind that the realistic ISAs designed for the actual hardware implementation are not any good for a software interpretation efficiency. For that, you need a very different VM design, in order to be able to use a direct threaded code, for example.

Same applies to the OP VM as well, it cannot be interpreted efficiently.

Have a look at the OCaml bytecode, or Lua VM, or Forth in general to see how it can be implemented efficiently.

what if someone steal your work, though.

This is why when people suggest that in the future, everything will be built using web tech (PWAs, electron apps etc) that I start to feel dread and disgust.

First time you do something: don't bother trying to make it generic.

Second time? Just copy and paste.

Third: that's when you can start trying to make something generic.

Print from your phone without connecting to wifi.

See - you're confusing the VM with the VM too.

The kind of VMs you're describing have absolutely nothing to do with the VMs like WAM, JVM, SECD, STG, LLVM and so on.

Our school centralized the network printers to one high-efficiency bulk printer per floor. There was often a huddle of people waiting or sorting out stacks of prints when report deadlines came closer. The skill was to watch the queue to time your walk over there for minimum waiting.

Nope, it's the opposite.

You'd be surprised, I have found a lot of printers in my University to be accessible from the Internet. The web interface has no password auth and you can upload a file for it to print.

Micro-services, maxi-billing hours. And pico stability.

&gt; And here we see the integer additions working four at a time

Again, I don't understand. There are 32 integer additions per iteration: 8 x `add nsw` vector additions.

&gt;Then there's considerations about how soon the data produced will be consumed again

Well, this is the one of the main points of this post – memory layout/access optimizations influence performance more than anything.

Based on comments and articles I've read, this blogger and his family has unfortunately already died due to the lack of advertising trackers and scipts on his web page.

at least it wasn't gross or really offensive to people who don't know anything about pewdiepie

Functions?

I find high level languages a pain point to begin with.

Some people need guidance since their feeble brain does not function without abstractions over registers and memory addresses.

/s

It's a meme.

&gt; One nitpick though, this is an Emulator you're written rather than a VM.

It's a machine, and it's virtual. Therefore, it's a VM. If it was a bit higher level, it would have been ok to call it an "abstract machine" instead, but the difference between an abstract machine and a virtual machine is very vague.

TL;DR - You can't always rewrite software from scratch, so deal with it. When you are working on legacy code, make it better - refactor, write unit tests.

\&gt;   and got the load time down to 16ms 

When your webpage refreshes at 60FPS

Why would anyone do that? Huge waste of time

You solve this by just having competent programmers that know how if statements work in your language. You don't solve it by making your code unreadable your code with additional markup.

tl;tr: "To me, feminism means that your gender shouldn’t affect your opportunities."

Teaching a politician how to understand something does not guarantee they will not choose to ignore that knowledge and work against it anyway.

What a load of politically charged virtue signalling.

I was too young to program on the Amiga really, but it was my childhood computer. Maybe one day I'll dust it off and learn.

It's not deprecated because they don't do the same thing, and one might want to use the one or the other.

I have "The C++ memory model" opened in the adjacent tab :)

On a scale 0-10 how good are you at C++?

Bjarne Stroustrup: 7

Me: Oh f*ck

Wouldn't say niche mate considering how many small businesses there are and how many of them create simple CRUD applications.

The difference between this and other solutions is that changing 3-5 lines of code would turn Razor Components into Blazor (from server-side to client-side).

I thought this was the point with cloud services, the ability to "loan" some computing power from someone.

How is this different from that?

Genuine question

How is success an argument against the commenters personal opinion of the games?

Every major browser compiles JavaScript to machine code.. it is not *interpreted*.

You mean this? Given it was spearheaded by a main Haskell dev, and the features of haskell that were used (replacement rules, replayability given initial input), like some commenters I don't see the point of reinventing the wheel in an unfamiliar shape. https://code.facebook.com/posts/745068642270222/fighting-spam-with-haskell/

Counterpoint: Just In Time compilation is a form of interpretation.

I was lucky enough not to face it. 

Also I was impressed that HHVM team created a *CPU cache emulator* to find the reason of a performance degrade. We under appreciate the diagnostic tools we have.

Really? You're complaining that Java gets updates? I bet you complain that linux/osx/windows get updates all the time too.

Code I've written in 1998 on jdk 1.1 still runs unmodified today on jdk 11. The only exception I've seen so far is when Swing was a new thing, and they changed the package name from whatever it was to javax.swing. Have never seen any other problems in all my years as a java dev.

Printing from the web is fundamentally stupid.

If a printer is further away from you than your local network, it's too far away for you to retrieve the printout anyway.

Printing from within a company or university network still makes sense, of course.

Really nice article.

I tried Ada a while back, and I really didn't understand any of the complaints about it.  I just had to spend an hour learning the syntax, and it was a fairly simple language to reason with.  The verbosity initially sucks for the first 15 minutes, but after that it's really nice to come back to and try to understand what you wrote late last night.

Also, that compiler is frustrating; in a good way.  It will grill your code and make sure every case statement has all cases covered (among other, more important things).

You wash stuff and do groceries daily? that's like once a week thing for me!

`cat | grep `

ಠ_ಠ

Thanks. I will watch it. 
From the title, it seems like I had to watch this video before writing the post :)

&gt; standardise the way fds from disk are piped

That's why the shell itself can do it, no need for cat:

`&lt;file program1 | program2 | program3`

"Increased diversity" bullshit again. If they were truly concerned about various different perspectives, they would be all for people like Damore, rather than the current idea of "diversity" akin to some bizarre game of Pokemon.

Seems to be the case.

How would tunneling through a protocol, change your mac address?

It's all fun and games until someone mandates quotas on corporate boards.

Semi-related: `up` is a tool from heaven when working with pipes:

[https://github.com/akavel/up](https://github.com/akavel/up)

Well this is pretty strong evidence that the current IP system has wandered far from its original intention, and is now more about large companies (in this case trying, but usually succeeding) to abuse the system for their own gain at the cost of individuals/small companies.

Exactly how would Ada prevent a merge mistake like the following from happening and having exactly the same effect as C ? 

`Ret_Error := SSL_Hash_SHA1.Update (Hash_Ctx, Signed_Params);`

`if Ret_Error /= OK then`

`goto Fail;`

`end if;`

`goto Fail;`

&gt;Your Scala code is also very invalid

Fine. Thanks for fixing it up.

&gt;That solution is much more complicated and also ugly.

I would argue that it's simpler, especially if there is ever the desire to refactor the `Option`s once you know you can provide them, which I believe is a point Rich makes in his talk. When I worked on a Scala codebase that allowed the use of `Option`, there was rarely a case class that didn't make use of `Option` and there were quite a few classes that made heavy use of `Option`, to the point where every member was `Option`. Some of this design may have just been defensive in the sense that "I know I can retrieve these values now, but what if I can't in the future? Better make it an `Option`!" This design locked in these class definitions as trying to refactor the usage of these `Option`s would have been a large undertaking, and this design encouraged further proliferation. It was impossible to tell why something was an `Option` and it just served to make code that used these case classes more complex than they often needed to be. 

Contrast that to the schema/select style. A car is defined by what it should be and not what its components might be. Functions making use of cars declare what, if anything, they need from a car, and they can be sure that when they execute, they will execute with a `year` if that is required. I would also think that performance would be better in a schema/select design than having `Option`; there is less work for an optimizer to do when all uses of `year` don't have to be followed by `exists`. Don't the tradeoffs seem evident? You declare something as `Option`, so every single time you want to use it, you need to check. If you have schema/select, every time you want to use it, you just need to declare it in your context (at the top of a function).

With respect to ugliness, just on the surface level, Lisp is so much more beautiful than Algol-style syntax languages. But the deeper beauty with Lisp is how the syntax enables macros that are so much better than C-style macros or C++-style metaprogramming. I have practically no experience with Scala macros, but at first glance, the `q""` form string interpolator is significantly more ugly than the way Lisps do things.

An abstract machine has to be overridden while a virtual machine may be overridden?

You better go unsub from tseries

and title like '%shrimp%' 

Anyway we would have to import that txt into a database first.

except if you happen to want to work in a field where your gender happens to be the majority (from practical step 3)

&gt; Wouldn't say niche mate considering how many small businesses there are and how many of them create simple CRUD applications.

When I said "niche" I meant a niche for which this particular technology was superior to the already existing ones. And then asked for an explanation as to _how_ this is superior to the already existing solutions.

I don't mean that internal or B2B are niche, I meant the niche within that segment where Razor/Blazor is superior to already established technologies.

&gt; The difference between this and other solutions is that changing 3-5 lines of code would turn Razor Components into Blazor (from server-side to client-side).

And this solves which problem exactly?

That’s not how it works.. you need to do some sort of authentication to retrieve your stuff

That's a real horror movie if I ever saw one

we need more open source in universities

Is there a randomizer on my point score for this comment? I get a different score every time I refresh.

https://imgur.com/a/eiDriOc

The primary reason why there aren't many women in tech, especially software development, is lack of interest. And that's okay. You can't force people to be interested in anything.

^(Hi, I'm a bot for linking direct images of albums with only 1 image)

**https://i.imgur.com/uwnawFh.mp4**

^^[Source](https://github.com/AUTplayed/imguralbumbot) ^^| ^^[Why?](https://github.com/AUTplayed/imguralbumbot/blob/master/README.md) ^^| ^^[Creator](https://np.reddit.com/user/AUTplayed/) ^^| ^^[ignoreme](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=imguralbumbot&amp;subject=ignoreme&amp;message=ignoreme) ^^| ^^[deletthis](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=imguralbumbot&amp;subject=delet%20this&amp;message=delet%20this%20ebrqnw0)

So cloud computing gives users the ability to use servers setup by the cloud computing provider (e.g. Google Cloud, Microsoft Azure, or Amazon Web Services). You essentially borrow usage of resources that are physically owned by the provider.

The configuration of those resources still needs to be done by the user. And this is what CDK tries to simplify.

When cloud computing as a platform first started, this was all manually done through a website. It was laborious and prone to human error. 
As time went on people wrote complex scripts to do the configurations but these only solved certain scenarios (like launching infrastructure in a new region but not necessarily updating the state of current infrastructure).
Then later models like CloudFormation came about allowing infrastructure to be defined in a configuration file. Now this is the next evolution of that where you write code which essentially creates the CloudFormation configuration file.

Hope this answers your question. I may have gone too in-depth.

Tl;Dr this helps you get configure that computing power you wish to use in a much better way than we have now.

Automated tests and logging are something that I would build in any application. They make development faster, not slower.

Some of your other examples though may be reasonable to punt on. For instance maybe this service isn't facing the open internet and doesn't have sensitive data, so is elaborate security a good investment? "Database without indexes" is a kind of odd example, but being more general, I'm usually fine with inefficient algorithms absent evidence that it is creating a meaningful bottleneck.

Also, there is a big difference between intentionally valuing simplicity and being lazy. Most of time I am continuously refactoring code to make it shorter and more simple. I'm not advocating for "it works so don't touch it", I'm arguing against the creation of Rude Goldberg machines under the premise of "quality architecture" with pipes and plumbing!

&gt; In nanoseconds, those are 5ns-5.7ns-5.7ns-11.6ns. Now, there's certainly some CPU bookkeeping overhead, but not 50ns worth.

I agree, it is hard to see what causes the difference between the SDRAM manufacturers latency figures and the observed 60-100ns of latency people say "RAM access" has.

First up, if I understand Wikipedia correctly, the latencies are more like 13ns, not 5ns or 5.7ns like you said: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DDR4_SDRAM#JEDEC_standard_DDR4_module[57]

Next, we have to consider what we mean by a RAM access. Lets say we've got DDR4-2666 and we write a C program that creates a 2 GByte array and reads 32-bit ints from that array, from random offsets, as quickly as possible and calculates their sum. The table is too big to fit in cache, so the CPU will have to read from RAM.

Here's what I think happens:

CPU core fetches and decodes a read-from-memory instruction.

Virtual address translated to physical address via TLB. Since our address is random, we will almost certainly get a TLB miss, which means the memory controller has to get the page table entry for the virtual address we requested. The funny part here is that the page table entries are stored in
RAM. If the one we want is not already in the cache, then we have to read it from RAM. The even funnier part is the page tables are in a tree - we need to walk the tree from the root node that represents all of memory, through many layers until we get to the leaf node that represents the page we are interested in. If the cache is empty, each hop on the tree traversal causes a read from RAM. This gets boring quickly, so I will assume we have enabled huge pages and that the page table entry is in cache. As a result, we get the physical address in a few clock cycles.

Now the CPU looks for the data in each level of cache:

L1 checked for hit. Fail.

L2 checked for hit. Fail.

L3 checked for hit. Fail. By now on 4 GHz Skylake, 42 cycles or 10ns have gone by since the read instruction started to execute - https://www.7-cpu.com/cpu/Skylake.html.

So now the memory controller has to actually start talking to the DDR4 DIMM over a memory channel.

Let's assume that the part of RAM we want to read isn't already busy (refreshing, being written to etc). Let's also assume that somebody else hasn't already read from the part we want, because if they have, the "row buffer" might already contain the row we want, which would save us half the work. Let's assume nothing else in the CPU is busy using the memory channel we need. Given the C program I described, and an otherwise unloaded system, there's &gt;90% chance these assumptions are true.

Now the memory controller issues an "active" command, which selects the bank and row. (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Synchronous_dynamic_random-access_memory#SDRAM_construction_and_operation). It waits some time for that to happen (this is the row-to-column delay and is about 10-15ns). Then the memory controller issues a "read" command, which selects the column. Then it waits a bit more (this is the CAS latency, another 10-15 ns). Then data starts to be transmitted back to the memory controller.

Then somehow the data gets back to the CPU and the read instruction can complete.

There are various clock domain crossings on the way to and from the SDRAM - the CPU, memory controller, memory channel and memory internal clocks are all running at different rates. To transfer data from one clock domain to the other, I guess, costs something like half a clock cycle of the slower clock, on average.

Then there are overheads like switching the memory channel from read to write takes some cycles.

I think I can make all this add up to about 40ns. I wrote the C program and timed it (I had to take special measures to prevent the CPU from speculatively issuing lots of RAM reads in parallel). The result was 60ns per read. So there's about 20ns of overhead remaining that I don't understand.

&gt;Even in that case, "appealing" to morality is an effective business strategy.

I never said it wasn't. What you're failing to see here is that Mozilla was originally the people behind Netscape, and Netscape was a strictly for-profit business with investors in '94. They _pivoted into open source_ because Microsoft was fucking them. They didn't initially set out to do shit but make money.

&gt;Loads of people are completely willing to pay premium for perceived or real morality of their product. Think bio-labels, fair trade and clean energy. Tesla isn't just selling cars because they're cool, but also because it's customer feel good about helping save the climate (how legitimate that actually is when you buy a new car every year and jet around the world isn't usually considered).

Poor example for choice of argument: Tesla hasn't been shown to be widely successful yet as a company that's worth investing long-term in.

Because that's your only example here, the argument itself means shit.

&gt;That being said, this is not actually how the world works. To come back to reddit's darling, mister Musk: Was founding a rocket company from scratch a good idea? No, it wasn't. It was ideologically motivated and still is. No sane share holder would green-light projects like the BFR. So the company isn't selling shares and keeps investing in business plans to could tank the entire company.

Yes, and has "Mister" Musk _really_ been successful as far as this is concerned? Do we see _actual_ evidence of us making these goals he has set out to achieve? Or has it all just been fun and games? Because I'm seeing the latter.

Honestly, how can you take seriously someone who blatantly makes a 420 joke in some market pumping scheme, is accused of market manipulation for said pumping scheme, and then can't even effectively smoke a joint on a talk show in the aftermath from that?

What does that say about someone? It clearly says that they don't give a _fuck_ about what they're doing beyond direct appearances. To them, it's all just well-executed publicity stunts that have literally no more value than John McAfee "running" for president in 2016.

&gt;Except they do. Let's take another tech example: The Linux Foundation. Tell me it's not an ideologically motivated company. 

Oh, sure. But it's also one that has contributed more than Mozilla is capable of, at least currently. I'm not the biggest fan of Stallman, but I'll say that GCC et al is a huge reason alone to keep the FSF alive. They provide something of _value_ that's been _proven_ in industry, (that also hasn't created a crippled landscape of shitty programmers as a byproduct of their choices). They also started _out_ as the FSF, and didn't merely become one out of reaction.

&gt;Of course, the entities sponsoring it are often doing so because they use Linux for profit or simply for good publicity. 

I see little reason for any business to use it for "good publicity": it's effectively dominated enough markets now on merit and financial advantage alone.

&gt;Where I agree with you is that most publicly held companies these days are purely motivated purely by profit. They will sometimes do the right thing, but only motivated by potential profit.

Yes, and since most of these are what exist in the landscape, they effectively have more influence over the climate than non-profits.

&gt;&gt;Any company that has to appeal to morality as a survival mechanism in this economy, especially when their competitors blatantly aren't, is essentially second rate.

&gt;I don't even know where to start with this...

&gt;Let's for a moment assume that companies do indeed work the way you seem to imagine. That is to say, any company is essentially an automaton with executives who aren't people but simple profit-automation systems.

By stating this, you're effectively stating that executives _aren't_ like this. 

Time and time again they've been shown to operate this way; i.e., the decisions they make always wind up being what effects their bottom line. And rightly so: that's how this world works.

Organizations "care" about people in terms of how they can convince them that what they offer is of primary value over competing organizations. Usually this means putting on as much of a moral facade as absolutely necessary, but no more. 

&gt;Even in that case, "appealing" to morality is an effective business strategy. Loads of people are completely willing to pay premium for perceived or real morality of their product. Think bio-labels, fair trade and clean energy. Tesla isn't just selling cars because they're cool, but also because it's customer feel good about helping save the climate (how legitimate that actually is when you buy a new car every year and jet around the world isn't usually considered).

I never said it was ineffective, and I _also_ never said that other businesses don't follow this. What I did say was that Mozilla _has_ to use this in order to survive. It's one of their business _assets_. Google's business model is a search engine and whatever other domain-of-the-half-decade they've chosen to attempt to monopolize legally. Their "don't be evil" slogan is really more of a meme now, than anything else. They blatantly and legally racketeer against other companies through entities like Project Zero.

And yet, clearly, we see other companies who _don't_ operate solely on this principle. Oracle and Facebook are excellent examples of this. Facebook is_highly_ successful, because they offer something of value that other people struggle without, despite blatantly immoral practices on people's privacy.

&gt;&gt;I agree this means very little.
&gt;&gt;That's fine. My experience is the same, and I use it as a default in Linux as well. Still doesn't make what I'm saying invalid.
&gt;&gt;Firefox is totally necessary, in the same sense that AMD is necessary. Both have done useful things, but neither are leading in their respective domains.

&gt;So you're saying they're equal, one is just more equal. It seems to me, either one is clearly superior (which you say Chrome is) or they're roughly equivalent (which you say they are).

No, I'm not saying they're equal. Note that we're discussing _companies_ and not _browsers_. There's a difference, here. Firefox works - I never said it didn't. On Linux I use it because I've been too busy to think "oh, I should install Chrome", and so far I've had zero reason to do so.

&gt;I'm just assuming you tripped up in your sentence, because DuckDuckGo does not use Google. 

You're assuming wrong, because `!g` is a common enough prefix in DuckDuckGo searches, which causes the search to be encrypted.

&gt;Anyway, I'm not stupid. But there are degrees. I mean you don't jump into a fire because you burnt your finger and now it doesn't matter anymore anyway.

This is a poor analogy: you're assuming that in this case the fire hasn't already engulfed you. In the case of the Internet, it more or less has.

&gt;My point was simply this: A browser can make it easier to harder for you to keep privacy intrusions to a minimum. Now, which browser do you trust more, the one developed by a company making more than 90% of their revenue via targeted ads, or the independent non-profit? 

The independent non-profit who accepts donations in the milllions from other large, for-profit businesses (Google included)? You _do_ realize that a large reason why Mozilla exists is to prevent companies from Google being accused of monopoly, right?

I trust neither company, because, as far as this is concerned, neither have made decisions which show any form of integrity.

To clarify, the printer doesn't just print your job. You have to go there, log in and then let it print your job

(post was too long)

&gt;If I may allow myself my own, regretful, snide remark: You're not doing a very good job.

Oh, really? 

This whole conversation started because some fanboy decided to spew a really lame insult toward shevegen. I told him it was dumb. Instead of defending that, he chose to target my saying of Mozilla as a second-rate company _using the exact same points_ he was using against our dear shevegen here, which I already stated were invalid.

And then you tell me I'm "belittling" him simply because I think anyone who says "I don't see you writing a browser" (as a response to someone critiquing the _business_ as a whole) is making a really dumb remark.

Surely even you can agree that's stupid. 

&gt;&gt;What nature values is clear.

&gt;Reproduction? It's kinda the only reason we exist if you want to argue on that level.

Sure, but that's not really what I was referring to here.

&gt;&gt;It's perfectly reasonable to derive objective meaning from that alone.

&gt;Yes, I too like sex.

Witty remark, wrong association.

&gt;But seriously, neither of us arguing "objective" truth. We're arguing world views, ideology and economy. None of those topics are in the realm of objective facts or natural laws.

All of which have their own _nature_ associated with them, and with respect to other opposing entities or views. This is what I was referring to. And this _is_ objective. 

I.e., organizations compete. In order to compete, they have to provide something of value. What defines their current value in the market is heavily influenced on the amount of people who subscribe to what they offer over other organizations, and these organizations act as direct competitors. 

If an organization has to use humanitarian values in a capitalistic economy as a means of survival (in a more explicit and direct way than other competing organizations do) so that they can accrue more users for their product, and the product itself isn't really based on humanitarian values, then they are not as a effective as an organization as a whole. 

Furthermore, if their main product is equal in quality or _marginally_ better than their competitor's, _non_ main product, that _also_ says something about the quality of them as a company in comparison to their competing entity. 

____

Based on Mozilla's history it's perfectly reasonable to say that they _lack_ integrity and they're 100% superficial. If you actually think they wouldn't fuck you for the right amount of money, you're effectively a tool, because it's clear that they're a for-profit business in disguise. _That_ is what makes them a second-rate _company_.

Genius Pewds strikes again.

Dealing with the recursion of handling something like if(5 + 9 &gt; (4 - (2 * 1))) is killing me right now in the compiler that I'm writing.

It compiles out to assembly/machine code of a VM that I wrote.

Very cool, exactly what I needed as I was in the process of writing a JVM loosely based on this as reference code: https://www.codeproject.com/Articles/24029/%2FArticles%2F24029%2FHome-Made-Java-Virtual-Machine

The article actually discusses Python vs JavaScript; it correctly states that Node.js is a runtime environment for JS. The original purpose of JS is scripting of browser-based HTML pages. The original purpose of Node.js is server-side asynchronous applications in JS. Python in contrast is a general purpose scripting language. We can conclude that it doesn't make much sense to ask whether it is better to learn Python or Node.js, or even Python or JS. The question should be more specific "for browser based or asynchronous server side backend applications". From that you can conclude that for people who want to specialize in browser based or server side applications JS would be a good choice because it is well established and about six times faster in median than Python; in contrast people who need a scripting language for everything and are not up to the best performance would rather focus on Python. So Node and Python obviously have a different audience and field of application; the question thus has the wrong focus.

Software development should be prohibitively expensive, so you can only do it once or twice per month? :P

Pretty sure he's the most watched youtuber.

So I guess some people decided he needs more money?

Okay, that’s good to hear, just a recompile and you should be good with any jre for the most part

California did this, right?

The title makes it seem like her name is Evelyn Berezin Word and she was a processor pioneer.

Well that hasn't been true since the birth of technology. I can't name a single female developer who has created something. In my programming class there are 5 girls. 5 girls in a strength of 33. Can you say the university is discriminating against girls?

&gt; Ada (and SPARK) syntax is super simple/readable, intuitively understandable, you need to know only basic English (not mathematics, not algebraic abstractions, not weird operators, etc). Code in Haskell looks like stream of operators

And now they're going for font ligatures and "Unicode conceals" (wtf!!) so what you see isn't what you get, it's like they're asking for trouble

https://github.com/i-tu/Hasklig/blob/master/README.md

https://github.com/dag/vim2hs/blob/master/README.md

Don't tell me how to live my life. I'll forward port 53 to my printer if I want.

I think it's more a case of fighting the poorly considered restrictions your language places upon the compiler's ability to optimise.

Now, already fixed.

&gt; He shows that the alternative to Maybe in Clojure is to use schema/select

That to me seems just like a Clojure flavored version of row types, not an alternative to Maybe.

You still will have places in your code at which point year/model might not have a value. What happens then? I don't know, maybe I have to learn Clojure and this spec language to try it out myself, but the examples given are orthogonal to issue Maybe type solves. What I see seems to just deal with more explicit requirements specification of a function (ala row types, again) and simpler destructuring syntax for nested structures.

**edit:**
let me rephrase it after taking a second look at you example, you mean to tell me that the Clojure code will implicitly skip over the cars that are missing a year value?

I think you are putting too much weight on the term "dynamic" and essentially taking it to mean "cannot be compiled" which makes your statement empty.

Common Lisp to me is very dynamic, in that it supports a lot of what I would call "late redefinition", but a large part of the Lisp work in the 1970s was discovering how to preserve much of what was good about Lisp while still allowing reasonable compilation to efficient machine code. Some of that was advances in understanding variable scope and environments, some of it was adding support to declare invariants for the compiler.

One of the tragedies about Python is how little respect the language paid to this kind of knowledge.

&gt; I can't name a single female developer who has created something.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Margaret_Hamilton_(scientist)

Quake3 had a VM based on LCC that did load time compilation of Bytecode: https://github.com/raspberrypi/quake3/blob/master/code/qcommon/vm_x86.c

FYI, according to the CC FAQ, it would be better to use one of the open source licenses than to use a CC license for code.

"Unlike software-specific licenses, CC licenses do not contain specific terms about the distribution of source code, which is often important to ensuring the free reuse and modifiability of software. Many software licenses also address patent rights, which are important to software but may not be applicable to other copyrightable works. "

https://creativecommons.org/faq/#can-i-apply-a-creative-commons-license-to-software

&gt; in that it supports a lot of what I would call "late redefinition"

Which is just one little dereferencing. Not any different from how dynamic libraries are implemented. Nothing dynamic there.

&gt; One of the tragedies about Python is how little respect the language paid to this kind of knowledge.

Of course. All such languages are mostly a result of an ignorance. Guido is proud of knowing nothing at all about PLT.

I’d encourage you to ask any women you in tech if they agree.

It's plausible enough for this type of error to be classified as [CWE-563](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/563.html).

Even my puny home router has port filters for IPv6, just like for IPv4.

Yes, if only it was actively being developed.

&gt; Print from your phone without connecting to wifi.

Most phones have Bluetooth *and* Wi-Fi these days. Both of those are designed for tasks like printing.

The question ends with "More importantly, what do you think?" It sounds to me like he was looking for general advise on what he was doing as well.

It’s impossible under such conditions. It’ll be necessary to sacrifice some of important options that have demand.

You're literally begging the question.

Hell you could argue both sides with such a logic, that we're so capitalist that mere regulation makes everyone recoil, or that statists are so rampant that you have to say you're not for full on statism before advocating regulation, lest people confuse you with them.

Truth is, any regulation or lack thereof being sensible is an independant matter.
The ethicacy of regulation cannot be reaonably inferred from regulation being ethical or not altogether.

but what if I want to email my printer?

It sounds like the product you are building is meant to be a platform, and the "flexibility" you are referring to are core features. I feel that the things you are mentioning are perfectly reasonable design requirements, not added complexity that lacks specific business value.

That tells more about your lack of knowledge than about women.

Same. It is the end of the compiler course, I tried to have a challenge and write the AST with a visitor pattern (inspired by the book "Crafting Interpreters") and I'm loving it.

We need less

Yes.  There was a topic in /r/javascript not too long ago in regards to TypeScript, and there are devs (I'm guessing they've never used a typed language) who believe that as long as you name your variables correctly, then you don't need a typed language, and that types only holds you back.

I find it awkward how men are writing these articles.

I have a great suggestion - how about letting women write these articles? Because I am getting increasingly tired of opinionated "male supporters" thinking they know what "has to be done" - and telling us about it.

Reading this back it wasn’t very nuanced what I said. It’s not like I would advocate firing someone on the spot for a tiny mistake, and I don’t even disagree that it might be better design for a language to enforce explicit braces (Swift does that and I don’t hate it)

But I do think that if this kind of error is something a developer regularly runs into, they’d better be really new because you can’t afford to be careless on the regular while writing code. I would love for my compiler to catch any and all trivial mistakes (and more modern languages do a lot in this respect), but they don’t, and correctness is hugely important for software.

There’re more than enough of various decentralized exchanges in the market, but they work slowly and no one needs them.

in 10 years they will come up with a special keyboard with special symbols. Their evolution is definitely moving in the opposite direction ;)

[http://www.rexswain.com/aplkeyb.gif](http://www.rexswain.com/aplkeyb.gif)

Nah. That only shows your lack of knowledge.

Here is one from the fields of bioinformatics (though it was not called bioinformatics back then):

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Margaret_Oakley_Dayhoff

The thing is - you evidently are trollolling while showing no knowledge. Please do not waste our time and educate yourself - wikipedia is a good starting point.

When you refer to a language being compiled/interpreted, you refer to the most popular implementations method, for convenience.

The question then, if we use the sentence is - why is the word "feminism" used here? If we attribute that meaning then the word is a misnomer.

I did not finish reading that article though - I find it to be qualitatively too bad.

Using an autoformatter doesn't mean running it explicitely (that's a personal helper). Code formatters and linters must be a part of the build process.

You mean men giving birth to kids?

Yeah. That's a field with a very low male participation level. I wonder why.

Precisely!

Or worded differently - programming is highly overrated grunt work most of the time.

Exactly. Chances are those three places are similar, but not *exactly* the same. That Part P that now handles all three cases might be a beautifully flexible piece of software.

On the other hand,trying to make part P a universal solution from the very beginning is much, much, more difficult to get right.

How about rewriting that to:

    x.BoundedValuesTypeClass.maxBound == x.value

and then bind the relevant type classes to values upon creation?

With that many you do it in Minecraft or, now, rust

&gt;When I said "niche" I meant a niche for which this particular technology was superior to the already existing ones. And then asked for an explanation as to how this is superior to the already existing solutions.

&gt;I don't mean that internal or B2B are niche, I meant the niche within that segment where Razor/Blazor is superior to already established technologies.

There's no existing solution for this for those that want to work with .NET and the other established technologies that I've seen don't have as good as a component model as Razor Components. But again, this is mainly for existing .NET developers.

&gt;And this solves which problem exactly?

Feels like you're taking the piss now... it solves the issues that come with the server-side model. The same issues that you brought up. Just say a customer suddenly wants offline support for a certain application then the client-side model would do the trick.

Disaster strikes again in the JavaScript ghetto. This time not in npm but in node.

When will people ever learn?

&gt; They make development faster, not slower.

Long term yes, short term no. If you want to deliver 1.0 ASAP with no regards for future costs you will skip pretty much everything i mentioned, especially if the spec isn't airtight and you can get away with some errors.

As for the rest, some might be skippable without catastrophy in a select few applications, but most are needed in most applications long term - I hope you can see past minor details and see my larger point. If the system you need has no security need, is going to have like 5 users and only work offline and no advanced logic you can probably get away with buying the cheapest shit you can find.

&gt; Also, there is a big difference between intentionally valuing simplicity and being lazy. 

I didn't mean any of these, firms that skimp on delivery to save cash will value speed over anything else. That means doing everything according to your first thought and no refactoring, it doesn't need to be lazy.

If it's a pure function I don't change it. I just make a new one for my new purpose. Otherwise I just ripgrep for all callers and update them.

Ah yes this last semester we had a project to write a compiler and getting expressions like that to work was a huge pain. How are you going about it?

As the other user pointed out, make is available as part of mingw-w64 installation. It is indeed native.

...only interpreted or compiled (or somewhere in between) language implementations.

Web printing does sound silly but you must remember the different features printers have. LAN and Web fax/email. Remote diagnostics. Consumable auto order. 

So if you're going to have a printer connected to a local network why not give it gateway access too? Maybe Phil is on vacation but forgot to print out reports. It is now possible for him to remote print without the need to travel back to the office.

There are logistical reasons.

The actual instruction function that is generated in C++ should be identical to the C one, the difference in performance would come from using a table of function pointers instead of a goto. I would guess the table of function pointers is a bit slower, but perhaps the compiler can optimize it away.

HN has some good discussions going on about optimization techniques:
https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=18678699

The particular problem sounds like something solveable by profile guided optimisation. 

But I agree often it's simpler to optimize something by hand than trying to make the compiler play ball. As compilers improve more cases are covered where it's not worth to hand optimize. But we will likely never get to a point where everything can be optimized by an compiler.

Programming IS all about guidance, you fool.
It's all zeros and ones in the end, how would your feeble human brain do without guidance ?

Lets not lower the bar too far.  Not-as-bad-as-firefox isn't the standard for excellence.

Uh oh, I might be evil.

Thanks, this is good info.

Well incidentally I'm French, so I have a bit more sympathy for the detractors of overregulation, given even our neoliberal politicians are enthusiast statists in some sense.

It's a tad subjective I suppose.

But that's besides my point. I'm simply trying to warn you about that common pitfall of reasoning: that it's oh-so-telling that people are still saying X when we know Y is true. It's just raising one's own confirmation bias as an argument.

And it's not really conducive to constructive discussion.

See, if a burglar enters your house, you don't just critisize his lockpick.

thats why real men use vim.

Shooting yourself into the foot is also not ... well, permanent.

// @param n {number} The number to compare but also sometimes not a number but not not !NaN

Man, even an intuitionistic mathematician would take offense at that many uses of "not".

Si.

I still don't get what you mean by "dynamic" then. Does it have any meaning to you beyond "can't be efficiently compiled"?

If a contract says you must wear a blue uniform, the uniform is not a contract, the contract is the contract.

Honestly I'm considering trying to just pull the whole expression out, run it somehow to get the results, like a transcompilation type approach, then put that in the output.

My other approach is to create like an array of every opening parenthesis with its string index, solve each one as it goes to the closing, in a loop that moves backwards so that you solve inside-out, right-to-left.

[*laughs in cross-platform development*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grace_Hopper)

Okay. For Dart that would be source code JIT, (sort of) bytecode JIT, and AOT. There was also an interpreter at some point. All of these were official implementations by Google.

And JavaScript started being interpreted and then many years later there was some JIT and V8 didn't have an interpreter stage until recently and then these engines do also Asm.js and Wasm stuff.

Ugh.

Yea, very convenient.

Another problem is that this distinction doesn't really tell you much. AOT compiled code can be slower than JIT compiled code. And startup with JIT can be perfectly fine if there is an interpreter stage.

And the final problem is of course that it's usually wrong. People like to call JS an interpreted language. It's not.

I've recently benchmarked it against redshifts, mariadb CS and clickhouse.

Calling citrus CS a column store is...stretching it, it's more of a school experiment performance wise. Partially due to the complete lack of parallelism.

&gt; There's no existing solution for this for those that want to work with .NET

Seriously? I would expect at least .NET, the poster child of enterprise intranet applications would have solved that problem already multiple times over.

&gt; Feels like you're taking the piss now... it solves the issues that come with the server-side model.

Yes, but that's my whole point - it's solving a problem _it_ created! This is not a problem the user has, this is not even a problem other software has, this "problem" is specific to Razor/Blazor.

Somebody please correct me here.

Thanks! And yes, Bisqwit is rad.

Would you also say that the JVM is not a VM, or what does it do fundamentally differently?

I don't think me message got across. 

But also, that's a bit goofy. There are plenty female inventors, but most of them already have names.

Great.  

It's really unfortunate that it's still not possible to simply write 

    Student[] studentArray = studentList.toArray();

I didn't like it much. I watched this yesterday, and it started out promising enough, but it seemed like too much of build-up towards Dependent Types (?) - stopped watching halfway through. 

Also, creating a new dummy language just for this sort of exercise ("Pie") seemed kind of forced - as if the presenter wanted to inject a bit of his Lisp-love into the whole matter. Haskell or Idris would have more than sufficed instead of a pseudo-Scheme.

Dynamic = dependent on a *dynamic* (i.e., runtime) information.

Things like duck typing (method dispatching using hash tables), things like dynamic variable lookup (like the dynamic scoping in elisp), evaluating strings constructed in runtime (as in Tcl), and so on.

I like your analogy!

I’m sorry but that windows 10 size is an issue on your end. It’s nowhere near that big.

If they hired you, you could just relicense it.  You're the only copyright holder so you can do whatever you want with it.

To be clear I have very limited experience dealing with software via contract, and I wasn't intending to offer advice on that subject. On the other hand, for in-house software development, I strongly believe in YAGNI and not building things before they are necessary.

Personally I feel like automated testing pays for itself very early on in the project, especially with multiple developers.

&gt; Maybe Phil is on vacation but forgot to print out reports. It is now possible for him to remote print without the need to travel back to the office.

That's _exactly_ what corporate VPNs were designed for.

&gt; the main difference here is that a Virtual Machine is designed to run on the Platform you're running it on

There are two fairly unrelated uses of "virtual machine". One is what you describe — hardware level virtualization. It's what containers like Docker do. The goal is not to abstract away the chip, but to insulate the OS.

The other is what this article describes — a software-level implementation of some chip, either real or imaginary. The latter is a valid use of the term. The Java Virtual Machine doesn't require running on a real "Java chip", but it's still a virtual machine.

Yeah when I saw it was printers I thought this was going to be weev sending KKK recruitment flyers again.

Search trees are the expected way to solve this but I'm deadass set on being able to rewrite this compiler in assembly and there's absolutely no way I could write a search tree in assembly haha.

It wasn't really supposed to be a serious suggestion, as much as it was simply a comment on how fucked up the patent system is.

You sure sound like a joy to work with.

And people still try to bash c++ for having signed integer overflow be undefined behaviour. Same goes for many others.

Yeah, this sounds much more plausible. That's what we do with HLS (at a much smaller scale obviously). Not sure how he made that assumption. Jumping between servers only makes sense if you switch from Australia to USA to Europe (to give an extreme example), but for a European client it won't matter much whether the stream comes from the UK or Germany.

I believe that’s the point.

If you're interested, I can post some resources that might help

It's not "15x that calculation", but "15 runs of a program that does that calculation 1 billion times". 1 million runs (assuming a runtime of ~1 second) would take hundreds of hours.

Some people in the replies have certainly made me realised the difference is a bit more complex then I first understood tbh.

I guess there's two major definitions of a VM, ones like JVM which defines an abstract machine and builds it, which well is what you've done the article, and ones like VirtualBox that virtualise hardware.

I guess the bigger difference is that the platform doesn't exist in the first place, so you'd still call it a virtual machine.

Funnily enough I brought this argument up to a friend of mine and he brought in an interesting aspect, what would you call say an emulator for one of these abstract platforms such as CHIP-8 or LC-3 if they were running on an FPGA. It kinda made we realise categorising these very similar things that are abstract is a bit tough and our varying definitions are going to clash at some point.

That way lies madness. Madness and rilkefs.

Why menue

&gt;Despite legislation, however, a gender pay gap remains.

On average men travel further, work longer hours in jobs often with less flexibility and benefits, take less sick days and choose higher pay over other lifestyle choices. When adjusted, the alleged gender pay gap shrinks to virtually nothing. If we aren't adjusting for anything then it's a meaningless political bludgeon.

&gt;A more diverse team, with a more diverse range of backgrounds and experiences, are likely to exhibit a wider range of ideas, skills, techniques and approaches to problem-solving. Diversity breeds innovation and helps you reflect your customers.

Diversity of experience in terms of skills and outlooks, so two straight/gay white/brown tall/short men/women with different backgrounds and experience will have different perspectives. What's painful is that social constructionists say that we are identical and that therefore equal outcome is the expected natural order, yet they simultaneously promote the idea that diversity (of superficial attributes, not work experience/skill) has benefits because what, the sexes are fundamentally different?

Either diversity of sex brings some benefits (I think so) and we should also be able to accept differences in overall numbers or we are identical, there are no benefits to diversity and all differences in outcome are down to social conditioning and discrimination. Pick one. If you pick the latter then not using the same hostile, critical language for fields dominated by women and pouring equal effort and money into rectifying that "problem" is blinkered and fundamentally sexist.

&gt; Personally I feel like automated testing pays for itself very early on in the project, especially with multiple developers.

Perhaps when building something highly advanced. Coding tests are like half of the coding time, that shit takes time to earn back. They don't really start paying you back until you find a bug with them.

Yeah I think this guy is really missing the point.  If you want to get more women in the field you need to spark interest before they grow into women.  When did you start getting interested in computers?  For me, it was around age 8 or 10.  If you really want to shift the demographic then do something to provide opportunities for girls to kindle an interest in writing code.  

The last time I googled this the racial and gender trends in software development mirrored racial and gender trends in computer science education.  Get more girls to study CS and you will get more women in tech.

According to the post, the issue was not due to Spacemacs being inefficient, it was caused by blocking due to attempting to call a plugin that was not installed.

It's like when I often have to explain to people that "blocking at the speed of light" doesn't get anyone anywhere. So if the problem is "embarrassingly parallel" and they can't figure out how to write a correct parallel code solution in C, then it won't magically be faster just because it's written in C, no matter how "efficient" it is. Efficiently doing no work is not progress.  Another language that is normally slower but makes it possible for programmers of their experience level and education to write highly parallel code will often win in these cases since it isn't wasting time blocking. Maybe someone else can write faster equivalent C or assembly, but if you're the one writing it, it's a moot point.

Pure nonsense. Algebraic topology relies heavily on categrory theory, which is not esoteric at all.

Knowledge of category theory is very helpful for coming up with good composable programming abstractions.

I've never written anything close to a compiler, but can't I use something like RPN to evaluate that?

did they catch him/her/trans/helicopter???

Would be nice to have a publication date for the article

&gt; Because I'm not a machine and I do way more than developing software.

And this is exactly why you should want to reduce complexity as much as possible. To do your shit quickly and go home.

&gt; I optimize for a variable balance of engagement, enjoyment, learning, results and lack of discomfort. You get to optimize for efficiency, if you want, but you don't get to tell me what to do.

Efficiency is a prerequisite for all of the above. If you waste all your time on busywork (and you do, even if you don't want to admit it) instead of automating it all, everything else is beyond your reach.

&gt; I have very broad knowledge of how tons of different software packages can be installed and configured on a specific system or set of systems for a given application/task and how they connect together in terms of system architecture, how to setup and operate CI/CD pipelines, and how to use all of the above to deploy applications for which I typically write plumbing code (middleware, error handling and reporting, tracking/monitoring, that sort of stuff) and assist with higher level SwEng stuff (architecture, refactoring, etc.).

Yes, I was always laughing at you devops types for this. This kind of stuff that we, normal developers, do with expert systems and constraint solvers in no time, you're sweating out manually. If your goal is to look busy - then fine, keep doing it, but if you want to finish your work quickly and go home - than you're evidently doing it all wrong.

If Cucumber was the best thing you devops could come up with, I really pity you.

&gt; But I don't specialize in any particular domain. In other words, I see at least 3 different languages on any given day.

And I see and use few dozens every day. This way I don't do too much hard work and keep my cognitive load low.

&gt; Given this context, I really don't want another DSL. You can keep them. I have enough cognitive load already.

How many times shall I repeat the obvious: the more DSLs you use, the *lower* your cognitive overload is. That's the very reason to use DSLs - to reduce complexity and cognitive load. That's the way human minds work - we always construct *languages* to hide away complexity.

&gt; Seriously?

Obviously. Say insane or ignorant things - be perceived as insane or ignorant. This is how it works. Your views are very high on the insanity scale.

&gt; You can do it in many different ways. But that is besides the point. The point is that tooling which prevents you from making mistakes is beneficial, DSL based or not.

And this is a good example of insanity. No, you cannot enforce discipline any other way. Either you do it on *semantics* level, or you fuck it up in runtime. No other ways, at least, no other ways discovered so far.

&gt; 'll believe it when I see it. Show me a side to side comparison of eDSL based projects vs. say, a run of the mill PHP web app or something similar, one that goes beyond the basic SLOC count and feature implementation time. SLAs, bugs per feature introduced or modification and MTBFs at a bare minimum.

Nope. I'd rather stay away from anything that reeks of the web shit. I have zero interest in even thinking about web, not just discussing it. I can give examples from the areas that matter (i.e., not web) - CAD/CAE, HPC, hardware design, software-hardware co-design, OS, real-time networking, signal processing, embedded, finance and so on. Leave the stinky web crap to the special school dropouts.

&gt; That's not IDE support. That's VIM's default settings (almost, you need ctags for JTD).

You have some DSL, which is a source for some Go (or whatever) code generated by a text processing tool. How the fuck you'll get a support for all of the above in Vim or whatever other IDE, without *implementing* all this shit on your own?

&gt; And yes, all of those are supported for the generated code because it is just plain go code. It is part of the repository, as I said. Actual files on disk.

I do not care about the generated boilerplate shit. I do not want to read it (unless I fucked up really majestically, and have to debug the code generation process itself). I want to read the *source* that was used to generate all that code.

E.g., if it's a parser, I want to read BNF. If it's some ORM boilerplate, I want to read the database schema. If it's a rule engine, I do not want to see those shitty `if` ladders - I want to read the rules.

And when this code is running, I want the debugger to point me to the actual source, not the generated intermediate shit, which, as I said above, I do not want to see, I do not want to think about it, I do not want to waste a second of my time with it  - I want to finish my work quickly and go home. All the tooling help me with doing things with as little cognitive load as possible - debuggers included.

&gt; Debuggers are a different story. "In devop we are not believe in debugger, we are propose TDD... and print_r(); die();" 

It's getting more and more hilarious. All the hipstor crap like docker and kubernetes first, now TDD and unit tests. You're evidently not interested at all in getting things done as quickly and simply as possible, you just want to look busy.

&gt; For small projects, I agree though, integration testing is sufficient for validation.

Unit testing in general and TDD in particular are absolutely useless (and often harmful) for most of the projects, regardless of their size.

&gt; Not with proper use of encapsulation (in an OO environment) or locality (in procedural style). I get the feeling that you think Go is just C with a garbage collector bolted on. Not exactly the case.

It'd be hilarious to see how you're debugging a horrible `if` ladder in your dumb pitiful Go, when in fact the underlying logic is just a couple of dozen of rules that won't take more than a hundred lines of code in any decent expert system.

&gt; I'll try to lower my cognitive load instead so that I can perform better without burning out.

You have no faintest idea of what you're talking about. DSLs are the *only* way known to our civilisation that allows to massively reduce your cognitive load.

&gt; For people who use go, it provides an adequate level of abstraction for the type of work being done.

No, it does not, and you know it.

Go is never an adequate level of abstraction. Your problem domains do not even have such terms as "function", "variable", "data type", "for loop" and so on, all those dumb primitive constructs you're operating with when you're dealing with Go code. None of the stuff you described above can be adequately expressed in such terms. It must be expressed as rules, patterns and strategies, for example.

Trees and lists are sometimes easier to grok in assembly. At least for me anyway. Something about everything being a pointer and commenting every line...

How to &lt;name of some obscure software as a verb&gt;.

Of all the ways you could have chosen to advertise this thing, this is the one you picked.

But dynamic variable scope can be done with compiled code. "Duck typing" is as much about how method resolution is abstractly defined as it is about the concrete dispatch implementation. Virtual method dispatch in C++ is determined at run time: what's the value of my vtable pointer? CLOS is pretty flexible but also supports compilation and implementations work hard to make efficient caches for dispatch.

Thank you for "bizarre game of Pokemon", I will use that from now to describe leftists idea of diversity.

For JavaScript it's a whole lot murkier, yes. Maybe calling it a "hybrid language" or something would be more descriptive? I don't think it's worth tearing down existing naming conventions just because some languages don't fit into them. I still believe there's value in calling C a compiled language and Python an interpreted one.

When it's a part of RHEL, for example, you can be sure it's perfectly vetted and maintained.

I don’t know if you were around in the 90s, but a lot of the gaming magazines had [pictures of hot women on the front](https://m.imgur.com/gallery/cbX1I), and plenty of sexist stuff inside (not virtue signalling or whatever you call it, articles were literally talking about women as if they would never understand computers or in terms of having sex with them).

Teenage me loved that, of course, but now I look back on it I can see why women might have been put off by all that.

Perhaps things will get better now that all that has stopped. My daughter seems pretty interested in robots, I hope she won’t get put off by the culture around tech.

... which for me is usually the first time I write a test!

For fun but also to raise awareness about security.

&gt; But dynamic variable scope can be done with compiled code.

It cannot be *efficiently* implemented - you still must look up a variable (by name, or by some hash, does not matter) in a sequence of environments. No way you can map it to a register or allocate a slot in a stack frame for it.

&gt;  Virtual method dispatch in C++ is determined at run time

It's just one dereference. Unlike a table lookup, which is far more expensive.

True, virtual calls are more on a "dynamic" side of language features, but not too dynamic when you compare it to the Python or Javascript method call semantics.

It's really what it feels like. Whenever I see companies excitedly making announcements that they have one of each demographic on a team or something, it's like... you are aware by trying to combat perceived racism/sexism, you're treating people entirely by their raw genetic characteristics, literal racism/sexism.

I'd much rather hear about the amazing things this woman did etc rather than hear about how awesome it is that someone with a vagina is on a team.

Maybe a stupid question, but how would one go about compiling code for their own VM?  I can't imagine giving GCC or LLVM a new output target is exactly trivial, but this exercise seems like it wouldn't go very far if you're hammering out machine code (and maybe an assembler) for it to work.

Yes, but are they properly configured?

K I forgot j=0;

except for that, did I translated the example into exercise well?

But would have marketing focused on men if they didn't have some indication that they are the most promising target group? After all, companies want to make sales.

I think parenting has a lot to do with it. Parents give girls dolls and boys lego technic (generally speaking). Fixing that would probably be a good start.

PewDiePie is so dreamy

&gt; jQuery is still widely used today and it's not going away anytime soon.

Only because of legacy support, it's not 2009 anymore I haven't needed to use jquery in years

Hi @ivquatch. I've been using typeclasses and instances quite heavily in JS, and haven't experienced the need to monkey patch anything yet. In fact, IMO JS is actually uniquely well suited to the challenge of equipping existing data with new behavior, without any modification or monkey patching.

The bags of functions that typeclass instances in other languages eventually desugar to are quite convenient to work with directly in JS. Here's an example:

```
// :: type Monoid m = { empty: m, append: m -&gt; m -&gt; m }

// Some useful monoids
// :: Monoid Number
const Sum = { empty: 0, append: x =&gt; y =&gt; x + y };
// :: Monoid Number
const Product = { empty: 1, append: x =&gt; y =&gt; x * y };
// :: Monoid Number
const Min = { empty: Infinity, append: x =&gt; y =&gt; Math.min(x, y) };
// :: Monoid Number
const Max = { empty: -Infinity, append: x =&gt; y =&gt; Math.max(x, y) };

const Arr = (() =&gt; {
  // :: Monoid m -&gt; (a -&gt; m) -&gt; [a] -&gt; m
  const foldMap = M =&gt; f =&gt; xs =&gt;
    xs.reduce((p, c) =&gt; M.append(p)(f(c)), M.empty);

  // :: Monoid m -&gt; [m] -&gt; m
  const fold = M =&gt; foldMap(M)(x =&gt; x);

  return { foldMap, fold };
})();

const input = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
console.log([
  Arr.fold(Sum)(input),
  // =&gt; 15

  Arr.fold(Product)(input),
  // =&gt; 120

  Arr.fold(Min)(input),
  // =&gt; 1

  Arr.fold(Max)(input)
  // =&gt; 5
]);
```

This doesn't have any dependencies, and I'd be quite comfortable pasting something like this into a util.js file without worrying too much that an average JS developer will find it impossible to decipher the black magic underlying its workings.

The unfamiliar jargon of course is somewhat offputting, which is a valid criticism. I suggest however that this is true of any new and unfamiliar design pattern to some extent.

Actually Ruby's OOP is very "original" OOP-like (in the tradition of Smalltalk and Objective-C) 

But what people take OOP to mean has since moved on, so whether that's a good or bad thing is largely subjective.

Thanks for the input. Was there anything in particular that you disliked about the article?

The infix notation is tricky, it's better to get rid of it with the shunting yard algorithm.

&gt; I think it actually encompasses most of the things that are wrong with "minimalist approach" -- which is, the fact that all "minimalist approach" systems are unusable in real life.

They never had a goal of making something "usable". If they did, it'd be, probably, an order of magnitude bigger, no more than that.
Remember, they had a very limited hardware to start with, to keep it accessible on low cost FPGA boards (I even managed to port it to iCE40-8k with 512Kb SRAM).

&gt; It has no journaling of any sort

You know, there is a very simple way to implement a perfect journaling, along with snapshots and rollback. Have you ever seen DEC Spiralog? I'm still puzzled why this approach was never used afterwards. And it's absolutely trivial to implement. Actually, thanks for reminding about it, I'm going to try building a Spiralog-like FS, just for fun...

&gt; The disk cache is rudimentary

Do not forget about the very limited hardware. There's even no DDR, and you won't get too much SRAM - go to mouser or digikey and have a look at the prices.

&gt; One can certainly fix all the things above, but then the complexity increases

Nope. Complexity does not increase too much - Minix is a good case in point here. What does increase though is hardware requirements.

One of the specialities of mine is building bespoke hardware compute accelerators, which often involve constructing a cut down software layer for them (won't call it an OS, but it might have quite a lot of OS-like features). And all of it is hilariously simple, when you do it the right way.

&gt; And the most telling thing, I think, it that Project Oberon reports are written in Microsoft Word.

You won't do much on a computer with 1Mb RAM, most of which is used for a framebuffer. Regardless of the quality of software running on it. That's way too low a spec even for TeX.

&gt; Well, it is easy to get rid of if you create your own Linux system.

Nope. I won't get the functionality I want with Linux, its fundamental architecture is at odds with what I need (e.g., hard real-time).

&gt;  Use bitmapped fonts, like Project Oberon does.

A ttf rasteriser is in fact a very simple thing. Have a look at the older versions of FreeType (those still written in Pascal).

&gt; Just don't look into source code of some Arduino libraries -- it will make you want to throw up

Maybe that's why I never had a reason to use any of them. Why would you, when it's so simple to drive, say, a stepper, or bit-bang a VGA? Just use the right level of abstraction (as declarative as possible) instead of crapping out all that boilerplate code.

&gt;  If you change jobs / your home computer gets destroyed, and you have to start from scratch, would you be willing to spend weeks writing math and plotting libraries?

My point is that this entire industry was doing things the wrong way and should start from scratch instead. Of course I do not advocate for everyone to build shit on their own - we need a common pool of *simple* things.

Unikernels is a very good start in this regard. Let's see where they'll go.

Hmm that's not how I read it, here's my interpretation:

They don't support minor versions (ie: 3.3.5) when newer minor versions come out (ie: 3.3.7). Makes sense - it should be fully backward compatible, so why make a [3.3.5.1](https://3.3.5.1) or something like that.

They say they aren't actively developing bootstrap 3 because of bootstrap 4 - to me that means no new features, mostly just bug/security fixes if needed. Which is what they did for 3.4.0 (they also improved their tooling and documentation).

The blog even says: 

&gt;While we’d planned for ages to do a fresh v3.x update 

So I don't think they ever had in mind to completely disregard v3 after v4?

I got the idea of attempting Shadow Casting in a game through this excellent video: [https://youtu.be/fc3nnG2CG8U](https://youtu.be/fc3nnG2CG8U)

I've however approached things slightly differently - using straight line calculations rather than raycasting, and "edge" elimination techniques - and am quite happy with the results (although I need to combined edges, still). There are very few instances of artefacts cropping up but I'm planning on ironing those out. Otherwise, I aim to more generally apply the algorithm to all objects in the game space that "emit" light, as their light sources still leak through walls (i.e. aren't clipped via shadow casting).

Quite the difficult journey, but enjoying it!

Because it allows low skilled people to easily get a job.

Are you ok?

Because it's used everywhere. Note that "popular" as used here doesn't imply that everybody _likes_ it per se, just that everybody _uses_ it.

Wow, this is my new favourite esoteric documentation (my previous is Haskell's description of arrays - "Haskell provides indexable arrays, which may be thought of as functions whose domains are isomorphic to contiguous subsets of the integers.")

I had disc with snes emulator ( definitely remember the snes one, finished chrono trigger few  times, not sure if it was the only one ) bundled with bunch of games.

I doubt Felix endorses behavior like this from his fans...

You're right that there are no silver bullets. 

As to why objects modify state, it's usually useful to focus on message passing. If every object has a well defined interface, then other objects can pass messages that describe the goal without caring or knowing how to accomplish that goal. I've been working with billing recently so let's say I have subscription and single purchase charges to process. One approach is to build a function that knows about the different kinds of charges and modifies the data differently depending on what it's dealing with. This can lead to a system that must check everywhere is the charge for a subscription or not? 

OOP works best when a program is a collection of objects passing messages to one another. One object runs the show and knows what messages to pass. The other objects know what to do when they get these messages. Sending prepare_for_billing works differently depending on the object handling the message, but I don't have to care about the details. I send the message and it works or raises an error. This let's me the programmer think abstractly about a series of general steps without worrying too much about the details. I start by writing "bill the customer" then I fill in some steps "prepare for billing" "apply tax" "send to payment processor" "record invoice". Finally I get to the details of exactly what happens to the data.

Full transparency, this is just a different kind of complexity. There is inherent complexity in building a system that can handle subscription and single charges. OOP has each object define the same method differently, which can be repetitive. Functional systems have to define different functions for each case, or have one function that branches.

The best results come from a balanced approach. Have a collection of objects send messages, and make sure the methods invoked by those messages avoid side effects outside of the object that handles it. It's good to try to make methods repeatable and idempotent. It's preferred if their output only depends on the input arguments. All of these are goals of functional programming and are desirable in object oriented programming too.

Mr. Beast?

You will have an "unreachable code" error after the second goto.

Ugh why does everyone want people to subscribe to the guy

&gt;Then who watches the watchman? ;)

How do you validate the ADA compiler?

Blockshits plz go

Yeah I was just poking at u/shevegen. I'm hoping that one day he'll discover his inbox and actually make a reply.

I'm definitly not arguing against the complete use of static types.

I'm not sure why you're having such a hard time understanding my position, maybe because you are used to zealots, there are definitly some on all side of the debate. 

I'm a very pragmatic person, and I also have strong ideological dreams.

So that materializes very simply. In practice, I can deliver all the value needed to satisfy my stakeholders and minimize the operational load on my team with a language I personally find the most fun to use, which is currently Clojure. 

Why do I use Clojure? Because I have the most joy using it. Very selfish I know.

So what about types? Types are fun to me as well. Not as fun as the instant feedback of a REPL with minimal verbosity. And not as fun as the full power of Lisp macros. But my work comes first, and if I needed to deliver things for which Clojure isn't well suited, I'd use a different language. I don't know why that's so hard to understand. Maybe the hard part is that the typing discipline doesn't matter that much. I might use Rust for performance critical use cases. Unity with C# for an indie game. C++ for a AAA game engine. Python for ML and data science. Haskell when I'm just goofing around. Go for simple command line apps. Kotlin for android apps. Swift for iOS. In all cases, I'd most likely manage to deliver what my stakeholders are expecting in a reasonable timeframe.

So you seem to detest dynamic languages and love static types. You havn't said much about it though. What language do you use professionally? Are your stakeholders happy with your work? Can your team maintain your code base over time? Are you trusted by your peers, managers and users to take on harder and harder problems? Where is your data backing your opinions?

But mostly, why do you believe static types is the single greatest characteristic of a programming language, and what kind of static type systems do you believe is best?

Listening to you, it sounds like by choosing a static type system language, your programs suddenly become amazing, beating all competition, smashing all expectations, etc. I mean, Clojure is my only dynamic language experience professionally, so I find that claim a little exaggerated. I didn't really find Clojure changing much, appart for boosting my productivity and being more fun. So I wonder what are the startups that beat the competition due mostly to their choice of static type systems?

I wish I had a choice to not use JS as a web dev.

Not entirely correct. CVE-2017-5638 impacted some popular printer makes with a web ui.

you should think more before typing :D 

More seriously though, I agree that if something is hard enough to code that you don't get it right from typing it, testing it manually once or twice and fixing the obvious errors you do get something early from having tests.

Right, which just illustrates his point.

This programming language fetishism is so damaging. It was kinda funny when people measured their virtual dicks by comparing the "popularity" or "elegance" or compiling speed of the language they designed and implemented.

But now it has turned into "this is what you need to learn to get a job". The programming language is the last thing you should worry about if you are about to embark on a career in programming. There are other, more important things, that would carry you so much further if you only knew how important they are.

:-(

That's weird. cstore_fdw from citus actually does perform somehow good. At least it's able to do fast data copying, and reads are faster than regular tables in many scenarios, which is why I use it, and regular Postgresql tables are much faster than I've ever squeezed MySQL for (which is pretty much the same as mariadb). When I copied the same data to MariaDB columnstore, it took so long that I just killed it, and it wouldn't even die properly.

It's in fact quite easy to write a *simple*, non-optimising LLVM backend. You can even skip the SelectionDAG-based infrastructure and just do an ad hoc thing instead.

If it's still too complicated, retarget `lcc` instead, it's dumb and simple. 

Still too complicated? Write your own small compiler for a subset of C (or whatever else language you want).

&gt; I like to send my emails to my office printer before I come in to work, just in case I need read them later.

At least one person I'd bet.

makes me sad, and my battery too

You could print off some really nasty picture to about 800,000 by the sounds of things.

This still isn't a property of the language. It's not something you'd find in a language's specification.

PyPy and LuaJIT are pretty popular.

Toyota makes red cars and BMW makes black ones. Even if most Toyotas are red and most BMWs are black, that statement is still nonsense.

Anyhow, feel free to elaborate on what kind of value those labels provide.

&gt; one **high-efficiency** bulk printer per floor

...

&gt; There was often a huddle of people waiting

...

&gt; watch the queue to time your walk over there for minimum waiting

Doesn't sound like an efficient use of people's time.

&gt; I have to deal with an "architect" 9-to-5 programmer on my team who insists on having wrapper layers between every piece of the application (including duplicate data structure wrappers), who's now blaming me for delaying the project after pushing onto me the whole work of connecting the poorly matching wrappers with the actual working code. I'm just going to delete the whole pile of junk instead.

Hah, I just realised - it's like refactoring, except you're doing it in advance of any plan or code being written - it's *prefactoring!*

&gt; This optimization was disabled because it was found to be more harmful than useful overall

While for a typical standalone compiler it would have been an instcombine-style optimisation, which is really hard to screw up.

Simpler than what JVM is doing, but a tiny bit more expensive.

&gt; They precisely enable those optimizations you mentioned in many more cases.

My point is, the way it's done in JVM is different from, say, LLVM.

&gt; I don't know what to tell you other than learn how C2 and Graal work. 

I know how Graal works (and I wrote a number of Turchin-style supercompilers over a decade before Graal appeared, none of the Graal ideas are new).

&gt;  Runtime data, however, can make solving the problem itself moot -- you no longer need to prove that the optimization is correct in all cases, just for the cases you've seen.

And it seems like you don't understand the difference yet. No runtime data can help here. It gives you a bit more constraints to consider, but does not help in discovering the globally beneficial reductions.

&gt; C2 and Graal do them all the time. 

And on a very local scale. Uninteresting. One thing is to know that a certain method argument was "1" ten times and "2" three times, you can do a couple of little optimisations with this knowledge. A totally different thing to know *statically* for sure that it can only ever be "1", "2" or "3", and that when you specialise for "2", you eliminate all of the virtual calls in the underlying call tree.

&gt; E.g., here is an optimization Graal does for Ruby code.

What exactly in this example that cannot be done statically? Any Turchin-style supercompiler must fold it into a constant, and it's not even expensive, there is no space for speculative specialisation.

&gt; That's an empirical hypothesis (like the generational hypothesis for GC), 

No it is not. A static call is *always* cheaper than a virtual call, you do not need any fancy cost model to know it for sure. If a specialisation or a condition hoisting eliminates your virtual calls, it's a beneficial specialisation, period.

Consider this example:

You have a rectangular area, and a code processing it contains a condition detecting the edges (e.g., think of a typical convolution implementation).

With a static optimiser you can *prove* (wasting tons of time) that the order does not really matter, so you can split processing in two parts, one kernel only processing the edges, and you do not care much about its performance, and another kernel running on the inside of the area only, which you can trivially vectorise. Then you run both kernels in any order.

None of your fancy runtime-data-collecting JITs will ever be able to capture what's going on here and realise that you can do such a transform.

&gt; Hard realtime is one of the cases where JITs are bad,

Bad for the soft realtime too (which is, for example, any GUI - humans have an aversion to visible hiccups). It's hard to find a load profile it's good for, actually.

&gt; AOT are very limited in theory, and even more limited in practice.

Nope. As I said, the knowledge of runtime hot spots can give you a few percentage point optimisations - you'll hint your branch prediction accordingly, you'll slack on optimising less important things, and so on. While very expensive static optimisations can discover orders of magnitude worth transforms, such as one I described above.

Why is it complicated? It's a constant, you should remove the if altogether (if you do constant folding + ADCE, of course).

No. Pretty sad actually.

According to Wikipedia it fell to 37 languages by 1996.

Yes!  I miss fun hacks.  These days hackers are just annoyingly condescending about bad security and spend their days selling bugs or wrangling botnets.

Ah, I see, you're struggling with parsing. Don't try to do anything fancy, there is a *very* simple algorithm for parsing with precedence - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pratt_parser

A cursory googling suggests Swift supports first class functions. The strategy pattern is therefore redundant. Just pass a function as an argument. Making a class to hold a function that you can pass is needless conceptual overhead.

&gt; Printing from the web is fundamentally stupid.

What about vendors/partners coming into locations where you don't want them on your network, you don't need for them to access anything but print?

Or say, a project where you are scanning something in a remote area, wanting the data to print to some office?

I can't think of 1000 reasons, but I could think of more reasons.

&gt; Every programmer should do it at least once.

Hell, most are happy if they get around to write an email client.

Well, it was a educational place so who cares about students or faculty. It was about money (maintenance, power, toner or whatever it uses). They were also pretty damn fast when they got going too but too many users per machine.

And of course you needed to scan your payment card before your job got to the active queue.

Every field has jargon. Specialists specialize their language to facilitate communicating with each other rather than laypeople because they communicate with each other about the subject matter far more. It's optimization of the common case. There's nothing wrong with that.

Even lawyers do it. There are branches of law specifically dedicated to working with lawyer jargon because it's so impenetrable to laypeople. I'm not condoning this--I think 'legalese' is fine in-house but it should be the legal professionals' responsibility to translate at the border so that laypeople can understand for themselves. But that's getting off-track.

In any case, even the examples you chose aren't quite right. 'Applied statistics' is a superset if 'machine learning.' You can't substitute one for the other, they don't mean the same thing. I don't expect lawyers and politicians to be subject matter experts--there are a lot of problems with that--but it is not solely our responsibility to become legal experts either. And we would have to become such to translate appropriately. We need to work in concert with each other. Unfortunately, that turns into the system of lobbyists and 'paid experts' we use now, and I have no practical solution for that.

&gt; The only thing I'll say is I wish for me there was some thing in between, because honestly I like both very much.

The thing in between is to have an untyped (no need for the strong dynamic typing, it's too costly in runtime) underlying language, and construct your own statically typed eDSLs on top of it, with type systems as complex as you like, tuning them to your particular problem domain requirements.

Shen is quite a good example of how to do it.

Quite a few of those abstract machines are deliberately too high level to allow a hardware implementation - it's common to have a very large number of registers, for example, of very complex semantics for instructions (like, UNIFY in WAM). 

Some are not even representable as flat sequences of instructions - LLVM, for example.

Hey, You can check for the article on creating vector in R

&gt; Have a collection of objects send messages, and make sure the methods invoked by those messages avoid side effects outside of the object that handles it.

This is a very good rule of thumb. Thank you.

I mean, have you got any evidence of that claim?

I learnt category theory as part of my masters in mathematics. What category theory is useful for, by and large doesn't apply much to practical programming. Programmers being aware of "products" and "sums" in the categorical sense clearly doesnt do that much good since even C has structs and unions which reify those very concepts (albeit some extra code will be needed compared to modern functional languages purely for type safety) but the concept of unions is something almost no C descendent decided to copy. 

Monads have become fashionable to basically sandbox propagating state down a pipeline of functions such that the overall function can be essentially pure - this is cool and all, but telling people that you need a bind and map function of certain signatures and how to use them is more practical than diving into natural transformations and making diagrams commute...

Care to give an example of what is more important for a programmer? I agree with your statement, but I’m curious as to what you deem more important.

&gt; This kind of stuff that we, normal developers, do with expert systems and constraint solvers in no time, you're sweating out manually.

You get to go home. The people who get paged when your l33t code fails don't, not in the "I'm not working" sense of the word. Maybe we shouldn't have 24/7 availability as a rule, or maybe we should require anyone who writes code for any particular code base to be available for the on-call rotation of it's deployment. Maybe. I don't know.

What I do know is that you lack empathy and willingness to understand other people's problems. You're not even making an effort. It's your call, but the discussion goes nowhere in this case.

DevOps exists because developers were being dicks to sysadmins.

&gt; Yes, I was always laughing at you devops types for this.

&gt; Leave the stinky web crap to the special school dropouts.

&gt; Obviously. Say insane or ignorant things - be perceived as insane or ignorant. This is how it works. Your views are very high on the insanity scale.

And I'm out.

I'm not a "devops type". And I dropped out, yes, but of the tail end of a master's degree.

You can disagree with me, and you can have a fundamentally different view of the world because your world (at least in terms of development) is not my world. But just so you know, I came from your world. I did implement distributed systems, filesystems and that sort of stuff back in Uni.

When you finally have the solution to the problems we are facing in web development and are willing to share your vast and superior knowledge with the rest of us idiots (in a professional way or at least without being extremely unpleasant), let us know. We'd love to hear from you.

Until then, I'll pass.

The notes might just be some scribbles and he might not have the time to write a polished version and it may not make much sense to anyone else apart from him. Or maybe he doesn't want to put out unpolished stuff. Lots of plausible, reasonable explanations.

Is your uPnP properly configured by the manufacturer? Otherwise, knock knock, ports opened from the internet

They're very vague about it. In the GitHub thread the creator said:

&gt;We stop supporting old versions as soon as the new one comes out honestly. So 3.3.5 is done because 3.3.7 is out.

I'm taking the word "support" as maintenance and bug-fixing. He didn't really specifically say that it's about patches and not minor releases. And this part:

&gt;We're not actively developing v3.3.7 any further though because we're focused on v4.

Is even more confusing as it implies that once a major release is out all previous major versions are no longer developed. Personally, I don't think they have an official stance on any of these things. They're probably being pragmatic about it and change their policy based on user feedback.

&gt; Dunno why you're getting downvoted

Because calling a bunch of games that were incredibly influential in their time 'shit' without any argument is overly negative and doesn't add anything to the conversation. So exactly what the downvote button is for; it's a useless comment.

&gt; 10 ms pause

&gt; low latency

lol

&gt; Also, creating a new dummy language just for this sort of exercise ("Pie") seemed kind of forced - as if the presenter wanted to inject a bit of his Lisp-love into the whole matter. Haskell or Idris would have more than sufficed instead of a pseudo-Scheme.

In the book it works, because Pie gets rid of a lot of the complexities of Idris allowing you to learn the simple core the lies at the heart of all dependently typed languages. The important thing is learning how the dance between evaluation and type checking works, and Pie combined with the book does a good job at that. You can then open up the implementation to see how it works, and David Christiansen has [a nice implementation tutorial](http://davidchristiansen.dk/tutorials/nbe/) on his website.

That said, the book probably takes longer than many people would have patience for to get up to steam - but it's worth it if you want to know how these kinds of type systems work but are having difficulty diving straight into the papers.

Because web development has no other choice.

At best it raises awareness before it is exploited for something actually bad

Spoiler: article doesn't answer why.

&gt; The people who get paged when your l33t code fails don't, not in the "I'm not working" sense of the word. 

Maybe they cannot go home, but they still must want to do the troubleshooting as fast as possible. And only a pervasive use of DSLs can help with it. Your assumption that only the original developers would be able to understand such a code is plain ignorant - the main reason to do so is to make code readable for *everyone*.

&gt; What I do know is that you lack empathy and willingness to understand other people's problems.

I perfectly understand your problem - it's *ignorance*.

&gt; You can disagree with me, and you can have a fundamentally different view of the world because your world (at least in terms of development) is not my world.

Look, I'am too in a busyness where I can get a call any moment to go and fix some shit quickly, as any minute of downtime or an incorrect behaviour can cost literally millions. You cannot accuse me of not understanding your concerns. I perfectly understand them, and dismiss them as they're based on your ignorance, not on your experience.

&gt; When you finally have the solution to the problems we are facing in web development 

Your stupid web development is just full of self-inflicted problems. There is not that much *natural* complexity in it, you created all of it on your own, and you deserve to suffer for what you've done.

Docker, for fucks sake - who could have even invented such a crappy way of doing things?!? While a plain old chroot + debootstrap + layered FS do it all much better and in a much more controlled and *secure* way. Every single thing you mentioned is just a hipstor crap that should have never existed in the first place.

Not just regular expressions, but also some other useful features in daily text editing. The arrays are stored in the local database, you can reuse them many times.

It looks like it's a 3d scene with infinitely tall walls

This reminded me of [this old comment of mine about a really awesome presentation player I found](https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/91heln/resurrecting_a_dead_library_resuscitation/e2ymei6/). I REALLY wish this was the standard for presentations:  
   
&gt; Off topic: The article referenced [Extracting Structured Data From Recipes Using Conditional Random Fields](https://open.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/04/09/extracting-structured-data-from-recipes-using-conditional-random-fields/), which linked to [This lecture about structured prediction for natural language processing](http://videolectures.net/icml09_smith_spn/). That site is awesome. When I saw the URL I figured it would be a generic slide share type of site, but no.  
&gt;   
&gt; It's the best execution of displaying a slide based lecture on a web page that I've seen.  
&gt;  
&gt; * For the love of god I can change the size ratio between the video of the lecture and the current slides on screen.  
&gt; * There's a list of slide titles with the video timestamp that they are switched to, clicking on the slide title jumps to that point.  
&gt; * Using the left and right arrow keys jumps to the previous or next slide timestamp respectively.  
&gt; * Hovering over the timeline at the bottom of the player updates the slide display to whatever slide is shown at that part of the timeline while leaving the video at the current frame.  
&gt;   
&gt; It's almost enough for me to ignore the fact that it requires flash!

I understand that this is supposed to be a kind of flat top down view of a flat 2d dungeon, but the way you have the shadows render actually mimics a kind of isometric rendering of the walls. Looking at it another way you could see it as 3d rendered walls streching upwards as your character walks around and between them. It's a really cool effect either way, but if you want it to read more as shadow it might be helpful to further distinguish it from the walls.

I’m glad the only choice we have is JS.

&gt; you need to spark interest before they grow into women.

Nope. This has been tried for decades. I grew up with no fewer than 4 women who joined a special program and went to a summer program specifically designed to get women ages 6-12 interested in STEM. Guess how many of them went into STEM fields? 0. 

Women aren't interested in science and tech because they're low status fields with unattractive men. There's a reason women are more interested in Law, Business and Medicine.

Hopefully the query finishes running before he starves to death.

if they do subscribe it'll be 50,000 more subscriber to his channel

Damn straight #VimMasterRace

His followers like /u/yogthos are equally toxic.

Which you can get in C too. But its a compiler technology thing, not an implicit language thing as far as I can tell.

I have absolutely nothing to do with this ecosystem (thank god), I was just interested to find out how they'd actually managed to do this.

- [Chocolately](https://chocolatey.org/) is a package manager for Windows.

- [BoxStarter](https://boxstarter.org/) is a tool which uses Chocolately to (supposedly) provide "repeatable, reboot resilient windows environment installations". It does this by disabling anything that might interfere with the install process, such as UAC and updates.

- Node.js was (optionally) installing both of those tools and then using them to install Node.js native modules for Windows. Why anyone thought that was a good idea is beyond me, but hey, in that ecosystem the more dependencies the merrier right?!?

- From what I could work out, in some cases (if the install failed?), BoxStarter did not revert the system changes afterwards as it is supposed to. I don't know whether that is the fault of BoxStarter or the way it was used by the Node.js installer.

- Don't know the answer to your last question, looking at the BoxStarter code on Github would probably be the best way to find out.

I honestly thought they named the program Word after her for a second... I am not a smart man.

Just like Protobuf?  
I see...

I wish that CSS wasn't the clusterfuck it is. 

Oh, and a pony while you're at it, Santa.

I mean there are options but those are not really ready for production(wasm).

&gt; plenty of sexist stuff inside

Women have a huge interest in Business, Law and Medicine. The "sexist stuff" in those industries pales in comparison to gaming.

&gt; My daughter seems pretty interested in robots

If you loved your daughter at all, you would discourage her from pursuing something that would make her miserable down the road. Encourage her to marry well, have a family when she's young and pursue a career later. She can go to college anytime. She can only have kids for a few decades and the older she gets, the harder it becomes, both to give birth and to marry a sufficiently attractive man.

&gt; The use of `foo &amp;&amp; bar || baz` instead of a proper `if` / `else` is... broken in the general case

Maybe I misunderstood you but it's not broken. It just doesn't actually do what a lot of people assume it does. 

Everything on that page is absolutely correct of course. More programmers should read Greg's wiki and the GNU bash manual.

I know, it's an odd effect, something I'm still debating what to do about!

Agreed, one of my next tasks is to allow you to "see" the first portion of a wall. I have no idea how I'll implement that just yet...

The code snippets in item 6 are not Java. Is that Kotlin or Scala?

&gt; is it natural or manufactured?

Natural. I'll see if I can find the link, but there was a Reddit AMA about a female to male transgender and what affect her testosterone replacement therapy had on her interests. She didn't care about Math and Science before at all, but after taking testosterone those subjects all of a sudden became intensely interesting.

That sounds like crying because I want a front-end dev job and the companies demand that I know HTML, CSS and JS but I'm a special snowflake and I don't like/know those. But hey, give me a FE dev job and don't tell me that I need to learn JS! I make great web apps with Assembly!

Heh, true. If I mapped a texture / colour to those portions, it might look like actual walls too... ideas abound.

for example, replace specified strings/column/lines with different contents from arrays, append before lines/column with different contents from arrays etc.

Not really, we do small projects as a code interview than can take up to 20 hours. That code is never used and it is really useful to see how a person behaves.

&gt;Seriously? I would expect at least .NET, the poster child of enterprise intranet applications would have solved that problem already multiple times over.

Web Forms would be the closest model but Razor Components is far superior due to Razor syntax, the component model, no ViewState and how only the DOM diffs are sent back and forth. There's no support for Web Forms on .NET Core as well so this would be a superior replacement.

&gt;Yes, but that's my whole point - it's solving a problem it created! This is not a problem the user has, this is not even a problem other software has, this "problem" is specific to Razor/Blazor.

Read this entire comment tree from start to finish.

Yup. I've heard good things about Affero GPL and might be a good idea here.

Not OP. But surely data structures, algorithms, general architectural principals, how different paradigms make you approach problems, writing clear and concise code.

The stuff that is actually way more important in getting the computer to do stuff, and allowing other developers to work with your code that transcends any specifics of a singular language.

So viral bro

Thanks for saving me a click! :P

I switched to GitLab CI.  More limited in many aspects, but vastly less trouble to administer, and makes some things vastly easier to accomplish.  [This pipeline](https://gitlab.com/codelibre/ome-model/pipelines/37267293) for example, replaced over six Jenkins matrix jobs.  And it's part of a series of jobs which fetch artifacts from each other, which works much more simply and robustly that what Jenkins offered.

This is not to say that it's a universal solution, but at least for my needs, it's a vast improvement.  If you need all sorts of esoteric Jenkins plugins, it might not be!

I used to agree wholeheartedly but nowadays typescript and vscode are too compelling, and chakracore scales down pretty well, it was designed for embeddability and constrained devices, hence node-chakracore (eg, Time-Travel Debugging with Reverse Continue).

Maybe Microsoft should buy npm and clean up that mess.

Is not the job of the type system to tell you what the code does, but yours with comments more useful than your post history in your code.

Why should that be easier? I don't get that at all.

I'm unaware of a single router uPnP implementation that opens ports due to connection attempts from the internet. How would it, NAT prevents it from figuring out to what IP it has to route packets

I like you, you seem smart.

Can someone fill me in. What’s the deal with pewdiepie and t-series? Dudes a millionaire and people are acting like his lively hood is at stake if we don’t subscribe. Is it just a competition or is there more going on

ACATS tests, as well as formal legality rules. The compiler implementer has to follow the legality rules (and all other rules for that matter), and the separately obtainable ACATS test suite (http://www.ada-auth.org/acats.html) contains tests for each rule. If the compiler passes the ACATS, you can be sure it is conforment (validated)

You couldn’t be more wrong, he doesn’t get money for the amount of subscribers he has so things like this don’t effect his income. Predispose is the most subscribed to YouTuber and it has been like that for a half a decade. Recently a Indian channel called T Series has been catching up to him and people don’t like that. That’s why you’ve seen these “subscribe to pewdiepie” posts as of late because people don’t want him to lose his crown of most subscribed to.

Still, a language choice can be a difference in orders of magnitude in productivity.

My bad. I was thinking of bypassing, but after putting some thoughts into it I realised that the IPC is still ~1 with bypassing.

JavaScript is so popular because it is goddamn decent at everything, while being far and beyond the best scripting language around.

I use node primarily for scripting these days and I get approximately three to four times the performance of python with approximately the same code, which is syntactically similar to Java / c#

&gt;&gt; Printing from the web is fundamentally stupid.
&gt;
&gt;What about vendors/partners coming into locations where you don't want them on your network, you don't need for them to access anything but print?

VPN into the firewalled network the printer sits on.

&gt;Or say, a project where you are scanning something in a remote area, wanting the data to print to some office?

Email? FTP? Fuckin SneakerNet? If you cant physically see the printer, how will you deal with replacing paper, queuing jobs behind someone IN the office, etc.

&gt;I can't think of 1000 reasons, but I could think of more reasons.

Firewall+VPN and done. Printers are too dumb and too ubiquitous to get a real IP.

That's a totally different class of error. I was talking about this particular context, that kind of error is very unlikely to result in the same vulnerability.

I'm a single dev who created this web app for my personal developer purposes. If you also struggle with copying/mantaining your configs feel free to use it.

Until it is done in the original redstone it isn't interesting.

Starting a large job ahead of time so it will be done when you get there.

100% this + ability to pick up “dialect” and its paradigms of the language itself and one is future proof.

At least they had the opportunity, thats all you can really provide.

That's a lot of work when you can just use a language that has most of those capabilities baked-in! Ada is a very general-purpose, fully-featured, expressive language. If you can write it in C++, you can write it in Ada, without question. It will also be much easier (especially concurrency), more maintainable, and is certain to have far less bugs.

Your type system would have to be very weird too.

Sounds like you're just looking for arbitrary holes to poke through.

&gt; Except for the most part, that niche is not filled by users - it's filled by developers.

Of course but devs are who pic technology.

&gt; Don't you mean the other way around? Ie, smaller payload, more requests?

No. Every UI action in Razor Components is one request where with REST you might need to get a comment and then get the user with the id provided in the comment's authorId property.

Do the right thing (for your stackholder)

I still don't see how that makes it immature. Would you call the airline industry immature?

https://blogs.akamai.com/sitr/2018/11/upnproxy-eternalsilence.html

"UPnProxy is alive and well. There are 277,000 devices, out of a pool of 3.5 million, running vulnerable implementations of UPnP. Of those, Akamai can confirm that more than 45,000 have been compromised in a widely distributed UPnP NAT injection campaign. These injections expose machines living behind the router to the Internet and appear to target the service ports used by SMB"

I can not say this strongly enough. Nat is not a firewall.

Say it with me, NAT is not a firewall.

Given most natd networks will probably default to 192.168.1.0/24, 255 addresses isn't that hard to flood.

Thank you so much!!

https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/a1rp4s/why_is_2_i_i_faster_than_2_i_i_java/

Mods really should enable duplicate detection.

A straight forward recursive descent parser solves this easily.

When you start trying to special case everything is when your compiler breaks. Just get a parser which generates an unambiguous tree.

On top of that, every phone made in the last few years also has USB OTG, which means you could also directly connect the printer to the device.

Nice job!

Every reasonable person would think so, but [I'm not so sure about that](/r/netsec/comments/a1jd5h/how_to_create_the_perfect_anonymizing_botnet_by/).

In defense of OP, hype isn't always bad. Jumping blindly in support of hyped things often is, but 'I don't immediately see how this is useful but lots of other people say it is, maybe I should investigate and see if there's anything to it' is a healthy attitude.

It's just a fun competition, nothing else. Obviously he will be fine if/when he gets dethroned but people want to make it interesting

Not suggesting "changing the language" as you make it sound - like re-writing. The actual point is, selecting the right language at the start of a project can avoid serious problems in the future. Ada is an excellent language that is neither dead or inactive. We ourselves have had incredible results starting new projects with it. We have large APIs that have run for years without having a single bug, or a single operational excursion. In any other language I've ever used to build anything, it has never been that smooth. I also am able to train most 2nd year CS interns to be effective in Ada within 1 week.

You have to explicitly allow port forwardings to the IPv6 addresses, so unless the manufacturer botched the implementation, it should be  pretty safe.

You should try it out :)

The answer is good enough. I have an degree in telecommunications (it's more towards infrastructures) and I have the basic knowledge about the matter, so i when i saw this video the first thing got to my mind was "hasn't this been done already?".

That's why commas were invented

Except the array description comes from a 50-year old sensible and straightforward idea that originated with Dijkstra. Or Strachey. Or someone, long ago, and it is fully integrated into the semantics of what an array is: a finite mutable map from an ordered range to a set of whatever.

How would the app "freeze"? It will be exactly the same - you press a button you get an error message.

The use case for intranet applications is quite obvious - no downsides, better code, easier to maintain because it is not written in two languages and what is more the language is not JS. Hell you might even achieve better performance compared to what you would do if you are not an expert SPA dev.

Ahh cool, thanks for the explanation

This. It's built up such a huge history of libraries that there's practically a well developed library for everything. Building on this, it's also stupidly simple to create C/C++ bindings especially compared to what it takes in Perl/Python/Etc.

NodeJS is constantly evolving: improving performance, adding features, fixing issues. Then you have Babel that adds support for proposed features.

No other language is as accessible as JavaScript is.

Making the edges a little more diffuse would help with that too.

Web Assembly might be a viable choice in the future though, right?

IT WAS A HEATED GAMING MOMENT!!!

How does this compare to iPerf/jPerf?

The nonsense words were intentionally chosen because it's so applicable to so many cases.

&gt; I'm in favor of this and don't see much wrong with it because most developers after a while develop templates for projects that they reuse. That's kinda like going to a restaurant.

I don't really agree. My home-cooked templates are probably not on the restaurant's menu, and the best I could achieve is being a pain to the chef and asking for a bunch of substitutions he may not necessarily be prepared for and in the end I get a meal I don't like for expensive when I could have had something much better and cheaper at home.. then I take 5 minutes to put everything in the dishwasher.

I think the analogy is ridiculous in the first place though. If a developer were in a restaurant, the only fitting role is a cook.

Dude, I love urbit. I used to hang out on :talk all the time. I should really set up my planet again and dig into hoon.

It's because it has browser support  and can be run on servers. That is it.

Computer programming used to be dominated by women until home computers were marketed to young boys and their parents in the 1980s. You can sort of "force" people to be interested in stuff.

Thank you!

Thanks, I try to make it nice to read

Nice article! It reminds me how much fun I had writing 68k assembly for my microcomputers class. 

I think the doc used for the AND instruction was used when explaining the ADD instruction.

&gt; I don't change it

&gt;I just make a new one for my new purpose.

You've never ever written any serious production code, right?

Languages are just tools. It's knowing how to use them to build something that's important, and knowing which tool is important for the job, and how a different tool can be used to do a better job. 

And just like tools you can appreciate craftsmanship and scoff at someone trying to pound in a screw with a hammer.

Ok, then go write an article.

&gt; How would the app "freeze"? It will be exactly the same - you press a button you get an error message.

Wait a second - are there UI events in Razor that _don't_ make a call to the server? Or do ALL UI events make a call to the server?

Yep, this is what I did for mine.

They've had the opportunity since the 60s. And yet, we still get articles like these and special programs and everything else. Nothing is ever enough.

Up arrow, cursor at the end of last command, ctrl w ctrl w. No need to retype the file, just change what it's getting piped to.

Exactly. Pewds &gt; T

I'm writing a programming language and vm for fun.  For this problem, I did something like this:

    expression parseAdditionOrSubtraction() {
    	value1 = parseMultiplicationOrDivision();

    	if(tokenIs('+')) {
    		return new AddExpression(value1, parseMultiplicationOrDivision());
    	}

    	if(tokenIs('-')) {
    		return new SubtractExpression(value1, parseMultiplicationOrDivision());
    	}

    	return value1;
    }

    expression parseMultiplicationOrDivision() {
    	value1 = parseValue();

    	if(tokenIs('*')) {
    		return new MultiplicationExpression(value1, parseValue());
    	}

    	if(tokenIs('-')) {
    		return new DivisionExpression(value1, parseValue());
    	}

    	return value1;
    }

    expression parseValue() {
    	if(tokenIsNumber()) {
    		return new NumberExpression(tokenValue());
    	}

    	if(tokenIs('(')) {
    		return parseAdditionOrSubtraction();

    		tokenShouldBe(')');
    	}

    	throw "invalid expression";
    }

This is not something I came up with.  I read it on Wikipedia.  In it's current form, my algorithm is much more robust, but I started simple and slowly made it more robust.

EDIT: I'm also going to include code generation:

    class BinaryExpression(v1, v2) {
        void compile(program) {
            v1.compile();
            v2.compile();

            operation(program);
        }

        virtual void operation(program);
    }

    class AddExpression(v1, v2) extends BinaryExpression(v1, v2) {
        void operation(program) {
            program.add();
        }    
    }

    class SubtractExpression(v1, v2) extends BinaryExpression(v1, v2) {
        void operation(program) {
            program.subtract();
        }    
    }

    class MultiplyExpression(v1, v2) extends BinaryExpression(v1, v2) {
        void operation(program) {
            program.multiply();
        }    
    }

    class DivideExpression(v1, v2) extends BinaryExpression(v1, v2) {
        void operation(program) {
            program.divide();
        }    
    }

    class NumberExpression(v) {
        void compile(program) {
            program.pushNumber(v);
        }    
    }

I'm using made up the syntax, but it should be easy to follow.  Just imagine that the VM for this language operates as a stack.  You push two values and execute operations on those values.

Thanks, I'll look into that.

&gt; Of course but devs are who pic technology.

Yes, but they generally do so based on what makes sense for the project, not whether they hate technology X or want to try out technology Y.

I mean, it's kinda standard I guess, but when my friend worked at Google as an intern (ridiculously good pay BTW), his agreement went into detail about how literally everything he does at work is essentially owned by Google.

So, essentially, if they see a message from me on Discord with my private github repo for a project that I may have invited him to on one of their computers, they can legally claim it as their own and steal it from me.

It actually goes as far as, if they find out you have been working on your own projects at home, they can claim the projects as theirs and fire you on the spot. 

That may not actually be feasible and they likely don't enforce it that hard, but it's legally possible, I think (not a lawyer). I think the rule is there more to discourage people from working on personal projects while working for Google so the employees can focus their efforts on Google projects.

I mean when you're getting paid over $20 an hour and they pay for your whole relocation for a summer, it's a pretty decent deal and I can see why they don't want you going anything. However, it may be not so good for students with other projects or deadlines. Lol

Then again, seeing how HORRIBLE most of Google's documentation is, I begin to wonder what they're actually doing over there.

Given the rapid growth of Python and the popularity of JS (even if it's so popular only because it's mandatory on the client side), I would say that yes! We need to keep discussing about the value of static type systems.

Types are by no means accepted as a must for professional software development.
I love types, but every time this discussion comes up, someone is quick to bring up that no study has ever shown conclusive proof that strong type systems actually result in fewer bugs.

I have a difficult time trying to understand why that may be the case... I've been playing around with Clojure and Racket (mentioned in the Q/A) to try to figure this out... but so far, I still don't get it...

I find it quite hard to do anything with them and am constantly making mistakes that a statically typed language's compiler would have easily caught for me (but I fully acknowledge this is more because of my unfamiliarity with the languages than with their lack of a static type system - ignoring the typed version of those languages)... just trying to imagine refactoring thousands of lines of code written in those languages without a type system to show me what needs to change gives me a headache.

When you factor those things all in, there is still a pay gap. Here's a huge study from the UK:  

[https://www.ons.gov.uk/employmentandlabourmarket/peopleinwork/earningsandworkinghours/articles/understandingthegenderpaygapintheuk/2018-01-17](https://www.ons.gov.uk/employmentandlabourmarket/peopleinwork/earningsandworkinghours/articles/understandingthegenderpaygapintheuk/2018-01-17)

&amp;#x200B;

Things are getting better, but a pay gap based just on gender should be disturbing to anyone who wants to be proud of their industry.

As someone with a degree in Architecture, this is not a true as you might imagine. The basic principles of the design process, and especially civil engineering, has not changed all that much in hundreds of years. It has been iterative improvements. Concrete has been around since the Roman empire (as were multi-story dwellings).

Honestly, Software has been a lot less discipline than other industries I've been around. In most engineering spaces, an attempt is made to not reinvent the wheel, and to make careful iteration. The software industry seems to have a lust for coming-up with the same ideas in a 10 year cycle, making little iterative progress in the long-term.

Again, I see this as lack of discipline more than immaturity.

...If what you say is true, then why can’t women’s roles in society be accounted for in the work place? We “have more sick days” probably for various reasons that are unique to women. Women often take up more responsibility in tending to children, and women also bleed for a week every month typically with cramps and bloating included (we make it look easy so males tend to forget). 

When a family decides to have a child, the father can keep on working with no consequence. But god forbid a woman wants some time off for her body to recover and to bond with the child. She deserves that wage gap.

The United States needs to act like the “first world country” it claims to be when it comes to the treatment of women.

I wonder if you can predict recessions with this - when the times are good, companies are willing to hire specialists, but when times are bad, they want a size-one-fits-all hire.

Every project is finished twice. The first time is when work stops on it. The second time is when it's forgotten. The modern internet makes the latter much harder than the former.

Because its a language for the lowest common denominator.

I would argue that more devices exist that support JavaScript over any other language but it's just a supposition.

Just remember that the printer companies just want you using ink.  They don't care what causes it to be used.

Eewww globo

&gt;  being far and beyond the best scripting language around.

This must be ironic. JS is badly designed (or more correctly, not designed at all, like php, made in a hurry).

Much more scripting languages are orders of magnitud better than JS. Python, Ruby, Julia, but in the use-case for JS, Lua is probably the best in the space.

So a sample size of 4? Hardly worth paying attention to.

Women used to dominate computer programming. That changed after home computers were marketed to young boys and their parents in the 1980s.

And on the 4th you find out there's an edge case and your generic solution isn't generic.

Four decade old floppies, even if you can find two separate drives around for the 5 inch and three inch ones somewhere, it's a pretty good chance there's nothing on them but sector read errors and sadness.

Not only productivity. Security, Correctness, Performance, Expressivity.

Things that JS not have.

I’ve read the first few chapters of their book and it’s presented much better than this in writing - this presentation was a pretty shitty rehash if the main ideas in the chapters

I would wager that Selenium itself is a very well-written library/tool. However, the tool is trying to tame the wild-wild-west -- all the web quirks of all the types of HTML and http and wsgi and js and css and how they make the browser do funky things.

&amp;#x200B;

I've used Selenium and the Python layer over it (written by Cobra team... ok.. its call Splinter I remember now) with great success.

Just wondering, but does it hurt to be as dumb as you are?

&gt;  Every programmer should do it at least once.

https://media.giphy.com/media/bkGXLpEXC6Tsc/giphy.gif

It's an anecdote, asshole. Every statistic on this subject backs up my assessment. The fact that a tiny group of women were interested in programming in the 60s is not statistically relevant either. But, like all dishonest assholes, you conveniently ignore that.

Even if it's just bullet points it's still more useful than a video I don't have time to watch.

A sample size of 1? Hopefully most of the folks here have enough love of science to completely ignore your claim unless you can provide a study with a reasonable sample size that eliminates other factors.

Or you could settle on an existing, well tested, extremely carefully designed, mature, robust, general-purpose, expressive language that can do anything, from writing an OS to a web API (Ada). I do not know one single compiled language that has the actual real-world validation, along with the amount of built in safety that Ada has. You have probably trusted your life to Ada without noticing it. I think of of the reasons Ada has been hidden had to do with how infrequently software written in it fails.

The Boeing 777 - with over 1,500 and growing planes world-wide, is fly-by-wire and highly automated. 99% of its software was all written in Ada. It has never experienced a software bug in over 20 years of service - which includes extensive iteration of said software (AIMS1 -&gt; AIMS2).

The NextGen air traffic control system in the US, also being written in Ada. So is Canada's automated ATC, so is EuroControl's system, so is UK's next iteration.

Most of the ISS safety-critical systems are written in Ada, and so is the Canadarm.

But what I find interesting is how effective full Ada is as a general-purpose systems programming language. I think its lesser adoption is really about lack of awareness. I fully expect that to change. The business case for Ada is stronger than many realize. For the early adopters - it is an easy competitive advantage. Those never last.

&amp;#x200B;

Naaah, little girls are very interested in math, science, and computers. Somewhere along the way that curiosity is discouraged or not encouraged as much as it is in males. 

Also I’ve found that a lot of males are intimidated by a woman who knows more than they do about...anything really, and it’s annoying. I’ve often come up with an idea or a solution to a problem and then some douche will regurgitate exactly what I just said as if it was his own idea. 

Anyway, despite the curiosity young girls naturally have in STEM, we have been pushed out over the course of our lives. And it’s only worse in the adult work place. But we’re knocking these doors down so I’m not worried about the future of little girls. We’re making progress.

I struggle to think of any modern language that doesn’t support this anyway. (Even Java) Some patterns are just obsolete.

Rip printers.......  I can’t imagine how many people will be hacked.

Hahah seriously. 

“Hey bud, wanna grab some beers at the dock with a few girls? It gonna be a warm one tonight!”

“No thanks, I’m optimizing my native C compiler for my virtual machine, and I think it’ll be an all nighter!”

“Oh... okay then.”

Just look at this filthy retarded code monkey here. This is exactly what Python does to a human brain. Don't do Python, or you'll end up being like this piece of shit.

Yes, it is Kotlin.

Why do you automatically assume her young daughter wants kids? I hope you’re being sarcastic. No young woman should plan her life around having some man’s babies, being his sperm receptacle, baby sitter and maid. 

A young girl should focus first and foremost on being self sufficient and exploring her passions and curiosities in this world. Kids are a bonus if they happen.

Check out SPARK/Ada - formally verifiable subset of Ada.

However this is not cost-effective for everything. It is another benefit of choosing Ada for a project. You can write the most important parts in SPARK, and formally prove that it is free from run-time errors. The rest of the business logic can be in Ada. Since SPARK is Ada, you can make this seamless.

Great article. You only have to browse many of the comments here to see how hostile our industry is to women. Or if you've simply asked women in our industry to tell you how they have been treated you'll get plenty of stories that should make you ashamed of how bad it is for women in our industry. The reason you have tech conferences for "women only" is because of just how creepy guys in our industry act towards women in a professional setting. I'm fully expecting to get downvoted because there are so many sexist devs out there who hate being confronted with how they act around female devs. But to end on a positive note, things continue to get better and that's thanks to the many devs who do put in the effort to make sure women in our industry have an environment to work in that is welcoming and free from discrimination. Keep up the good work. Some day the ugly stories from women in our industry will be few and far between thanks to those who are pushing for improvements.

Use a mix of recursive descent and shunting yard. Recursive descent will parse till the `if` keyword. Once the parser sees `if` followed by `(`, it calls the shunting yard parser to parse the expression within. Once shunting yard is done, the next token must be `)`.

I find shunting yard much easier to understand and implement than Pratt.

He don’t care about it at all lol. He’s just joining in on the fun because it’s honestly a meme at this point. He admit that it will affect him I. No way whatsoever.

And it runs on my phone!

Well I look at this, and I cannot see a plausible way to end up with that result from a merge error. Of course, you can imagine any condition, but if you look at the original code, and you try to transform it faithfully to Ada, I don't see how this would have been a viable threat. 

The point of the article was to imagine if this project had been using Ada, and the same clearly poor programmer, with the same style, what likely would have happened.

Your suggestions are a recipe for misery. Just look at millennial women. Most of them followed your advice and now 75%+ of them are miserable and are on some sort of anti depressant or psychoactive.

This is completely correct, not sure why so many JS comments claiming otherwise are being made.  It's almost like people don't understand the different between compiled vs. interpreted.

Let's pivot to 4 digit PINs for an example where that's not the case. You have 10000 possibilities, so "unconstrained" and at random, I have a 1/10000 chance of coming up with a random password. If the numbers are random and evenly distributed, it should take 5000 guesses on average if one were to brute force. 

Only thing is, something like 20% of PINs are birthdays, because people like easy to remember numbers. 

So if I had a set of 100 accounts to break into, I could run through 1918-2018 on each one then move on. On average, I would now have access to 20% of those accounts using only 100 guesses for each one. Assuming no other known patterns, I'd have to brute force the rest.

But a bank doesn't want ANY accounts broken into that easily. So they could say "no dates 1918-2018". So now the problem space is reduced for everyone. There are only 9900 possibilities. I have a 1/9900 chance at random, because I know about the restriction. All the "good" pins are now slightly weaker because we've eliminated the common ones. But at the same time, I can no longer just search dates first.

Which programming languages you know specifically doesn’t really matter imo, as long as you know a bunch. If you’ve programmed with coroutines in Kotlin then I’ll trust you to write async/await code in C#. If you’ve worked with functional languages I’ll trust you to apply the map and filter functions you’ll find in every modern OO environment ever nowadays effectively. It doesn’t matter if you learned about algebraic data types from ML or from Swift.

But I will be extra skeptical of anyone who only has experience in one or two languages. It enriches you immensely to look at code from different perspectives and shows a drive to learn if you have a few under your belt.

You’re actually showing both your sexism and racism by assuming that because someone has a vagina or is of a different race that these are the only reasons they’re on the team. 

I really wish people like you would lift your heads out of your own assholes long enough to realize what’s been happening in this world. The reason companies have to have these diversity initiatives is because historically businesses would ACTIVELY DESCRIMINATE against talented/skilled people of certain races, and genders as well. Now, in order to combat that ACTIVE DESCRIMINATION, they must ACTIVELY seek out those who they have historically barred from entry. 

Get it?

To be honest, I think WebSocket should be enough but it's impressive to see a true alternative to tedious socket.io in Java ecosystem.

&gt;It's an anecdote

Exactly. Entirely ignorable. Carry on.

As far as I can tell, Rust is simply not as expressive as Ada. Its error handling semantics looks really sexy and elegant and first glance, but they are not as efficient as exceptions for very large systems. Ada's type system is immensely more powerful and expressive, and its package system has better encapsulation capabilities than any structure language I've seen. Rust has as far as I can tell (I'm still a novice), a very watered-down C++-esque approach to encapsulation.

Often times in a large system, faults need to be passed up from lower layers to be properly handled. In rust, you basically have to engineer an explicit chain to pass that kind of propagation up. That is pretty hard to maintain, and prone to error.

Also Rust has the same readability problems as most C-like syntax languages. This is constantly underplayed. Readability is super important. Software is read and maintained so very much more than it is written. It seems obvious that you'd want a language that was "harder" to write, but easier to maintain and read. This is true from a programmer prospective, but it is doubly true from a business perspective.

&gt;really useful to see how a person behaves.

Yeah, if the person does the project you'll know they're desperate and will take the job no matter what you'll pay. Great way to get cheap employees.

So it starts. Will be interesting to see how it all shakes out with all the vendors.

It sounds as bad as ISO646 and JIS. And honestly I didn't know this whole crap was included in IMAP.

I loved reading it. Good job.

I mean it's own

Nothing should be open through the firewall in a corporate network. Employees need to VPN in for every service including security cameras which I’ve been getting a lot lately.

&gt; commenting every line

I see you've already found enlightenment.

I think special programs are great, but this article did make me cringe.

Umm link the list?

Slow day on redpill?

&gt;Be careful, however, of jumping the gun on such refactorings. 

Really wish past-me would have read this.  Our team had a stretch where we were "DRY zealots" and we added flexibility well ahead of \_when\_ it was needed.

\_Two classes doing similar work?  Make a common base class!\_  Never mind the fact that they would quickly diverge and we'd be slaves to common base class because of many other dependencies.   

I'm all for flexibility in code but oftentimes the most "flexible" implementations are standalone apps you can delete or completely rewrite when a requirement changes.

Give them a separate vlan and vpn from wherever they are to that vlan.

I see the phrase "real-time" mentioned a lot. Does it mean that it [guarantees a response within specified time constraint](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Real-time_computing)? I've seen no explanation on the site for this.

That would be very impressive though. Last time I've learned, achieving real-time operation would require some level of operating system support as well. An on top of that, it needs to deal with the quirks of the JVM, as any unexpected pause for garbage collection could violate this requirement.

If anybody finds any info on this, please send it my way.

&gt; why is the word "feminism" used here

Because the world we live in now is one that mostly discriminates against one gender. Especially when it comes to careers.

I’d love to see how the government expects this to work. I don’t think they understood the amount of business that will be lost.

You're completely right, but one other point: Google is NOT just a folder for the search engine. It includes almost every Product Area that you have heard of: Chrome, Photos, Maps, Fi, Android, Ads, Search, Brain, Cloud, Hardware (pixel, home, etc), YouTube... And the list goes on and on.

WTF i'm not going to educate anyone

the clowns in the legislature can hire/appoint people who *know how this stuff works* instead of the children/wives/siblings of their biggest donors

for all the money and perks Congress members make, they can do this much work

I've no reference but some other clojurists even [mentioned it](https://old.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/a1o5iz/maybe_not_rich_hickey/earpilm/) in this thread.

My point is that it takes very little effort from a programmer to not make this particular mistake (always wrapping blocks in braces). There are multiple classes of mistakes in C that are actually worth addressing in newer languages, but this one is just trivial.

Everyone has Plumbus.js, it's native in your browser

So perhaps that's the case the post should be making.

In principle I could be sold on Ada - though I find its verbosity very concerning, and I'd have to be convinced it offered good alternatives to the advanced type system constructs I've grown used to (HKT etc.). But just telling me it avoids a couple of C stupidities does not convey a compelling advantage for Ada.

​

Use fundamental-mode.  I've edited GB sized files in emacs, you just can't have the UI thread trying to run stuff across the entire buffer and blocking.

&amp;#x200B;

1K lines shouldn't put a stress on emacs normally though, so I'd say spacemacs is trying to do something absurd.  My last employer had some 40kloc files that didn't slow down a 2.4 Ghz 4G ram machine in c mode...

Who is this guy why do people like him so much??

If I understand it, they're not obligated to put a backdoor in, but assist in finding a man's to circumvent their software, if they get a request.

They genuinely believe there's nothing they can do. If they felt otherwise, they'd work out a means to prevent that exploit, so I do wonder how this will play out.

While a code of conduct *can* be a legally binding document, most are not. Additionally, contracts usually lay down very specific terms -- something like "don't be evil" is not specific enough to be binding since "evil" is s subjective moral assignation. Almost nobody thinks that they're being evil, even if everyone else thinks they are.

still, kudos for the work

I agree with most of the opinions in the talk, but not with a tangential point made in the beginning:

&gt; you can't do an experiment on that … we're fundamentally stuck in a world where we need to talk about things based on intuition, based on personal experience based on stories; and it's not the best way to make decisions but it's kind of all we got.

1. The resigned attitude is strange. Lots of fields of research can't do fully valid *direct* controlled experiments to test a hypothesis (and the question of the effectiveness of various techniques/tools is not particularly hard compared to others). But if the question is important, they try other ways. Sure, sometimes the results are meaningless; some attempts are downright ridiculous. But often *some* data is gathered that serves as some form of useful evidence. If you don't even try, it means that the question is not that important to you.

2. The lack of empirical evidence for *whatever* reason is no justification for *increased* confidence in stories or personal experience but for *decreased* confidence, even if that's "all we got." Stories and personal experience is how people sell homeopathy. Sure, sometimes all we got to make a decision is a coin toss, and that may be the best we can do, but that doesn't mean we should imbue the decision with any special significance beyond being a coin toss. 

3. While many statistically significant effects are hard to see without controlled experiments, statistically significant effects that are also *large* usually don't stay hidden, even without meticulous experiments -- especially if the effect could be exploited for financial benefit in a capitalist system. If strong evidence of some effect is hard to obtain, the simplest explanation is that the effect is not large. In other words, confidence in a hypothesis of a large effect should decline over sufficient time without strong evidence. Over time, lack of evidence for a *big* claim becomes evidence against it.

When I've talked to women about their experiences in tech one thing they have mentioned as being helpful is hearing from men who are willing to make the workplace more welcoming to them and who are willing to discuss the issue in the first place. As opposed to guys who will, just for example, defend talking to women at work as if they are sexual objects because "deal with it". You would personally rather that only women write these articles? Doesn't that sound a bit.... sexist to you?

&amp;#x200B;

&gt;thinking they know what "has to be done"

&amp;#x200B;

Was there something in the article you think the author got wrong?

https://m.oglobo.globo.com/economia/globoplay-tera-pacote-com-telecine-premiere-23281411

Why does gcc turn memcpy into an unrolled loop instead of using REP MOVS ?

They need to clear the whole ecosystem. Package authors have no regards to CPU or memory usage. E.g. the native-dns package uses 60mb of memory worth in cache. It's insane, you start a new node app, 5 packages later it uses 200mb ram, it's insane and I hate this whole ecosystem.

No, I'm saying it's retarded when people celebrate someone's skin colour or genitals rather than their talent.

I really wish assholes like you would understand that adding more discrimination won't fix anything, especially so clumsily. How do you work out how much adversity each person has faced? Or do you just do blanket? A poor white man has suffered far more than a middle class white or black woman. Etc.

Get it? It's dumb, and reduces people purely to their racial/sexual characteristics.

&gt; If the compiler passes the ACATS, you can be sure it is conforment (validated)

Sure, but ACATS is just unit testing, and unit testing does not prove the absence of all bugs, only the presence. Having ACATS v4.1 (instead of stopping at 1.0) means that there were changes in the history of ACATS. Why? Because of the bugs in ACATS.  

There's no reason to stop at N tools instead of N+1 tools, because the compiler is just one tool among many: operating system, IDE, source code versioning, merging tool, testing tools, continuous integration, and unit tests, just to name a few.  

Your argument is just a strawman.

Not an argument.

Has WhatsApp (FB) compromised?

Catering to the same people that *were* those children.

Changes in ACATS follow changes in the standard only.

ACATS are not unit tests. They specifically test if the compiler is correctly following the language standard, and correctly enforcing language rules. ACATS are validation tests. ACATS does not look for "bugs", they look for non-conformance with the specification. I still don't know any other language that has language conformance tests like that.

Your argument is just a whataboutism.

Google cloud print makes it simple to print from an android device though.

Kinda hard to replace printing from a mobile or tablet device when some executive wants to print from his iPad with AirPrint.

They’re not Australian.

Pretty sure this guy hacked my instagram too. I saw the pewdieganda!

And that's what happens when you write shitty code at scale (a.k.a. "move fast and break things").

9 year olds is what he calls his fans

Hopefully not!

AGPL would be a really good choice, since it forces distribution of both the client and the server side of the equation.

You're missing the point.

    $ time for i in {1..1000}; do cat /usr/share/dict/words | grep grimness &gt; /dev/null; done

    real    0m2.955s
    user    0m2.595s
    sys     0m1.829s

    $ time for i in {1..1000}; do grep grimness /usr/share/dict/words &gt; /dev/null; done

    real    0m2.503s
    user    0m1.611s
    sys     0m1.011s

That means that per run, there's half a millisecond difference. If you had the two processes running side by side and displayed the word DONE in a 200 point font when both were done, you would only start to perceive a difference if you ran both 20 times in a row.

Yes. Useless use of cat is 'bad practice'. No, don't do it in a shell script, you should know better... but at the same time, think. `fork()/exec()` are cheap in *nix. Does burning processes matter? In the time that it takes you to change `cat foo | grep bar` to `grep bar foo`, you can launch, conservatively, 1-2K processes.

The shadow casting is perfectly linear and goes out infinitely from the light source, but the light on the floor has a sudden drop off. Once I noticed it, it seemed incongruous.

Why is the verbosity concerning? It is there for a reason - readability. I still have never heard a viable reason as to why a language should be made easier to write and the expense of readability. 

I also note that the verbosity of Ada is very good at finding common errors.

Some of us are. I have hired conservatives because - all else equal - I want their unique views in my workplace, even though I'm not conservative myself. And that has paid off. I wouldn't hire a Damore. He's got a load of issues that I'm not interested in going into detail about or debating here.

Do you have evidence that folks interested in diversity aren't truly concerned about various difference perspectives? Other than Google firing one guy? A study maybe? Something other than anecdotal?

It's the hiring equivalent of the dog mentality:  "Throw ball.  No take ball, just throw ball."

CSV import is handled via SSIS or the GUI or Powershell scripts. 

Yea, it's weird that they don't have a T-SQL option,  but that's not the same as not being able to do it at all.

Nope. We are running a nodejs apollo server that is hosted in our own infra.

I assumed parent poster watches pewdiepie videos exactly because the "9 year-old" part

Baby steps! Remember that the blog specifically intends to focus on well-known, actual vulnerabilities. The theme is to say - if Ada was the project language, this disaster would probably never have happened. Goto fail is both (in)famous, and easy to understand. It is a great introductory example. It is not, nor does it try to be, the be-all to end-all example.

Urbit is serious. It's just pretty much unlike any other programming language that exists. My coworker and I describe it as what programming would look like if we found computers built by aliens.

It sounds like /u/shadowh511 has actually spent time on their chat, so maybe they can add to that.

I think real-time here means "we use WebSockets so we can also push data to the client".

Because the prior art discovered was incomplete. At a place like Google, that is the responsibility of the *lawyers*, not the inventors. I tend to think that either the lawyers were ignorant of the tech or they began the filing process well before they met this guy.

If you are interested in Performance, you should look into the Okanshi library [https://github.com/mvno/Okanshi](https://github.com/mvno/Okanshi)

whats good for cc-nc ?

essentially gpl but can't do commercial

&gt;Changes in ACATS follow changes in the standard only.

That's not true at all, just read your own link again. The version history in the ACATS page is clear. Current version 4.1 for ADA 2012 came after version 4.0 for ADA 2012. The same language standard, two ACATS versions. And if you read ahead a bit more you'll see that there is an ACATS 1.11 for Ada 83. Eleven (twelve?) releases for the same language version. ACATS is unit testing.

&gt; I would argue that it's simpler, especially if there is ever the desire to refactor the Options once you know you can provide them, which I believe is a point Rich makes in his talk. 

Then they can be refactored easily in a statically typed language.

Or just use the implicit converter I gave you to create phantom optionals - like how you're doing it in clojure.

&gt; Contrast that to the schema/select style...It was impossible to tell why something was an Option and it just served to make code that used these case classes more complex than they often needed to be. 

You can't act like Option is complex when your clojure solution is significantly more complex.
Also, both the spec and implicit-def "solutions" are hacks. Just refactor them.

&gt;  I would also think that performance would be better in a schema/select design than having Option; there is less work for an optimizer to do when all uses of year don't have to be followed by exists.

No, it wouldn't be because it works with reflection. You're already sacrificing a lot of performance because of dynamic typing but with something like spec you waste even more to dynamic hacks.

&gt; With respect to ugliness, just on the surface level, Lisp is so much more beautiful than Algol-style syntax languages.

No, it isn't. Lisp is ugly af.

&gt; But the deeper beauty with Lisp is how the syntax enables macros that are so much better than C-style macros or C++-style metaprogramming.

Comparing apples to oranges here. Scala, Rust, Nim etc. have much more powerful metaprogramming features than C or C++ too because they use hygienic AST macros. Can you detect data races with clojure at compile-time [like Nim](https://nim-lang.org/docs/manual.html#parallel-amp-spawn)?

&gt; I have practically no experience with Scala macros, but at first glance, the q"" form string interpolator is significantly more ugly than the way Lisps do things.

Well, the q"" is just the quasiquote which is just advanced templating. The real scala macros which work with ASTs are also much simpler than your spec code or the macros in clojure.

No disclaimer, no source, no information what it does, what platforms are supported, basically no information at all. Just a link to a login form only supporting Google accounts.

[Bouncy castle](http://bouncycastle.org/) is among the most common OSS non-US-originated cryptographic library. IIRC android at one point uses this to work around the DoS export restriction.  

It will be an interesting time for sure.

Oh yeah. It's interesting. I think I might have made the first post and called OP out for the low effort post. Then I left and came back later. And actually OP explained what he was after, but I was long gone and branded a troll or any number of other despicable things. Eh, it's okay. I'm not offended. I'm just blown away that 250+ people would downvote my first post. I mean... if it's downvoted a dozen times already...  hehehe. :)

I can't understand the reason why they insist 'Almost all popular web frameworks in Java are supported' without Play framework support.

Well I wasn't 9 around 2010 and I absolutely hated the content he made then, but now I think his videos are pretty funny

Top Projects in 2018  
[https://blog.github.com/2018-12-13-new-open-source-projects/](https://blog.github.com/2018-12-13-new-open-source-projects/)

I'm writing this just to thank all of you who helped with this project, I'd like to thanks all of the 44 contributors that have contributed to the project, and for all of those who have made some constructive feedback! Thanks y'all!

I'm really proud of this project and really glad of the huge feedback that I've been receiving for the last months.

If you don't know the project yet, I'd really recommend it for all of those who want to learn more about JavaScript. If you want to contribute to the project, or just give a feedback, please feel free to do:

33 concepts every JavaScript developer should know  
[https://github.com/leonardomso/33-js-concepts](https://github.com/leonardomso/33-js-concepts)

&gt;All it gives you the right to do is spend more money suing people who violate your patent

That's not exactly right. A patent grants you the exclusive right to produce and market the invention. If someone infringes on that right, yes, you can choose to sue them... And then they have to pay you restitution. That's how the government protects you.

But they have users in Australia, so they law still applies to them.

For the same reason it was yesterday,

This is what happens when you have a culture of “test in prod” and not isolated sandboxes, or have good automated tests, functional tests, integration tests, etc. 

I work at a Silicon Valley unicorn and they all have this mentality and then are surprised when their shit breaks and users lose trust. don’t know why they don’t think their shit doesn’t stink? Maybe it’s the tight pants and scooters.

I kind of get it I guess, they’re able to make money even while building a pile of shit. Then it breeds a new generation of engineers who believe that working hard, not smart, is totally ok to get ahead. The world isn’t really proving them wrong, and us older grey beards are sort of just ignored. ¯\\_(ツ)_/¯

I wrote my first programs aged 9. It's not about CompSci. It's about doing what you're interested in. CompSci education doesn't make you a good programmer.

Lawmakers can already hire any number of qualified staff or consultants to help them understand technology and advise them on how to act. Same goes for any other field. The reality is that they simply do not care.

The recent hearings weren't for the purpose of protecting citizens and holding tech companies accountable — it was so politicians could score cheap points and show their base that they were punishing these companies for helping democrats.

I think this is cool and certainly appreciate you sharing this with the community, but what does this solve that git and stow do not solve?

Welp, guess I don't watch him enough to catch that joke lol

From what you wrote it rather looks like 4th doesn't fit in the first place.

He will just have to wait till you two can talk in person.

Would you rather have shitty code that leads to billion dollar company or amazing code at a failed company?

is this a woooosh? i can't tell

Haha, true. Maybe because of the consequences of faults 😁😁😁

"Oh wow cool you're working on exactly the same stuff we're working on? You seem awesome! Want to come work together?"

Which, by the way, is how 99% of these sorts of conversations go.

ACATS tests are directly tied with the standard. So version 4.1 is for the Ada 2012 standard. Like everything in Ada, the ACATS tests are peer-reviewed and refined based on the results of those reviews. The major version of the ACATS refers to each approved standard. Ada 83 - 1.0, 95 - 2.0, 2005 - 3.0, 2012 - 4.0. The peer-review stage requires the tests to be released to the community for review. This sometimes results in minor, often pedantic changes.

Notice how the number of changes are going down with successive standard update? Refinement and peer-review is a wonderful thing.

Same... also they don't understand how long something takes when its your first time doing it...  so many arbitrary "deadline" missed..  I will say that I love that I get to develop everything from scratch, really keeps the job interesting

&gt; Another problem is that this distinction doesn't really tell you much. 

Nope. It does. A lot.

If you don't even have enough useful information in compile time to generate efficient code, you have even less information to reason about correctness of the code, to navigate it with precision, and so on.

The difference between dynamic (interpreted in runtime, in any possible way, from a JIT compilation to the dumbest possible AST walking interpreter) and static (fully resolved in compilation time, optimised efficiently) is still fundamental.

[This](https://users.rust-lang.org/t/the-beta-rust-lang-org-pr-debacle/22778/26) is the main feedback-related thread I've seen on the rust forum. It is *not* generally positive. I'm honestly really curious where I can find any significant positive feedback on the new design.

Not just a LOT MORE work. Also, vulnerable to failures.

Do not nasa and JPL do code reviews? Sure they do. Do these issues evade detection in code review, and in LINT tools? YES.

It's two different techniques being applied. The first is pure shadow casting. The second is the effect of a "light source" that dims over distance. I definitely need to combine the two effects a bit more smoothly methinks.

99% of companies I've worked for are hostile.

It had a greater share of women in it, but it was never "dominated" by them. In fact, having done business in India, there are almost 40% women in the industry even today. And from my experience, they're better than their male counterparts. The question never is why women aren't into programming. It actually is why they're not into programming *in the west*, where they have many more other choices.

True. But code reviews make the latent issues worse, not better.

Trust me I love code reviews here. I'm just saying that code reviews can fix your bad language design is a sad, pathetic argument.  I endorse code reviews and when I conduct them, I try to show a way to do them that is egoless. The only goal is to be error free, and to know if the change is correct. That's all.  When code reviews reveal your dysfunction, you can treat that as a benefit of code review. It has unearthed a stench. Now let's handle the stench professionally, with the support of senior leadership, so that we can fix the dysfunction, and if necessary,  shuffle the team and let a guy who can not or will not alter his style go.

Fix the fucking languages, language design pros, so that code reviews can become code reviews instead of a manual LINT process.

For C, C++ and so on, that ship has flown, it's bad by design.

The guy did an AMA: https://www.reddit.com/r/AMA/comments/a1wo96/i_hacked_50000_printers_worldwide_out_of/

Hi I'm not sure where to post this but hopefully this is the right place.

In O Auth 2.0 is there ever a need to create a signature (md5 or hmac) within the request URL?

The taobao (tmall) API says it is using OAuth 2.0 but it then asks to sign the request with a signature using the session key that we get from the token url.

I cannot see why this would be necessary if the authorisation has already handed by O Auth 2.0

That's the feeling I got from reading the bugs, but you should do you own research before putting your environment at risk.

The Literate programming tool used to make this is really great. Works with any programming language and very easy to use. I'm a huge fan: https://github.com/zyedidia/Literate

Yeah that’s literally what I posted.

In other news: http://edge.alluremedia.com.au/m/g/2016/06/old-man-yells-at-cloud.jpg

Seriously though, these kinds of vaguely attributed straw man arguments Uncle Bob is so fond of building are counter productive. I’m sure if you went digging you could find people seriously making the argument against terms like DDD, but trying to paint that as a common progressive viewpoint is just being divisive for the sake of being divisive. Let’s all chill out and take some arguments on their merits instead.

Look at Steve's twitter replies. That's it, as far as I can ascertain.

Attempting to weaken encryption is the definition of a losing battle.  It's trivial to properly encrypt if you want to hide bad things.  All this does is demolish privacy for normal people.

According to several articles I've read, it was in fact dominated by women. Here's one. I'm willing to consider other sources if you have better info than me.

&amp;#x200B;

[https://www.smithsonianmag.com/smart-news/computer-programming-used-to-be-womens-work-718061/](https://www.smithsonianmag.com/smart-news/computer-programming-used-to-be-womens-work-718061/)

Thanks, I was really tempted to add in JIT, but I think the video is already a little too long. Maybe that would make a follow up video! :)

Do you see them celebrate anything but skin colour and sex? Are you asked your views and ideologies on job applications etc, or your gender and ethnicity?

Maybe this is why the ISS's environment control systems are written in Ada :P

It is a woosh, a bad one

Yef

They were acquired by Virtu

If the new laws actually cause companies to leave,  I wonder how quickly they’ll start rolling some of laws back.

Imagine erlang, but the cloud, but every TYPED atom of data is addressable from any other node (if you have the referent), but the people who made it have a philosophical outlook [something like this meme](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0S3aH-BNf6I), but they use React with it, but it's a web server too, but part of the VM is written as "jets" to do basic things like....subtraction, but the VM spec is so tiny it fits on a tshirt, but the VM itself is so small it's basically useless - less is not more when more is what you actually need, but it's an interesting thing to at least try. Being very stoned helps.

Technically they could add a backdoor, not in their servers but on the app they publish, the app itself has access to the keys to decrypt everything, adding some code that extract keys on demand is technically possible, it would destroy the app credibility but it's doable.

As a someone with a small interest in rust that doesn't sound like what rust is for.

&gt; Because it's used everywhere.

Meaning: it's used for mostly front-end web(which attracts a lot of people who don't like their current jobs and/or want a better salary) and for a few other things for no technical reason.

It’s things like this that make me realize just how bizarre this profession really is.

Interesting

All I know about him is that he is a gaming YouTuber... and that's about it.

awk is faster than perl.

Hahaha! Awesome way of putting it. Yarvin's certainly an...interesting individual.

In my experience the hardest part of reading and understanding code, which is a prerequisite for any kind of work on it, is simply the amount of code. Verbosity increases readability if you measure per line, but massively decreases it if you measure per functionality. Indeed I've seen claims that defect rate per line of code is constant across verbose or concise languages, which would mean that verbosity translates directly into a higher defect rate per feature.

Then make sure your email account is not compromised and you should be good. Just setup your printer with an email account, and no problems will occur. You shouldn't actually send email _to_ your printer, but send emails to an account that your printer has internet access to, and one with a strong password, SSL encryption, and a solid provider. Like GMail or whatever people use these days.

As are you.

You picked documented vulnerabilities and showed they wouldn't have happened with Ada. Maybe so. But maybe that same code in Ada would have allowed for other vulnerabilities.

The ride never ends.

Yes it has probably been compromised or will be very soon

False equivalence.

I agree with lol-no-monads, I don't think the notes are that great, but if they might help you, you can view them here: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Twfb5cfp5t7lvD8CqugF0y2\_BrCcN-4tIt2YQl2Ficw](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Twfb5cfp5t7lvD8CqugF0y2_BrCcN-4tIt2YQl2Ficw)  

Speaking for yourself, would you appreciate if the video had these notes in the description?

This is not a fault of NAT or UPnP, but devices that use UPnP. Registering that your service is available outside of your network is downright stupid.

&gt; The difference between dynamic [...] and static [...] is still fundamental.

That's not the topic, though.

This isn't an implementation detail either.

&gt; I'm definitly not arguing against the complete use of static types.

Then why do say shit like this:

"I think if static types made a discernable difference, it'd be long discerned and those languages wouldn't be around anymore."

You're either lying or you're unable to express yourself properly.

&gt; I'm a very pragmatic person, and I also have strong ideological dreams.

That's a paradox. You're either pragmatic or an ideologist. If you'd be pragmatic then you'd evaluate languages' features instead of shilling clojure.

&gt; Not as fun as the instant feedback of a REPL with minimal verbosity. 

Statically typed languages like Scala have a REPL too.

&gt; And not as fun as the full power of Lisp macros.

Scala also has macros. I'm curious what you can implement in lisp what I can't in scala. Of course, nowadays I use Nim which has excellent macro support - probably the best I've seen so far.

&gt; and if I needed to deliver things for which Clojure isn't well suited, I'd use a different language. I don't know why that's so hard to understand.

It's not that I don't understand what you write - it's that you're back-pedaling now. You're not honest at all.

&gt; Maybe the hard part is that the typing discipline doesn't matter that much. I might use Rust for performance critical use cases.

You don't seem to understand Rust.

&gt; Unity with C# for an indie game. C++ for a AAA game engine. Python for ML and data science. Haskell when I'm just goofing around. Go for simple command line apps. Kotlin for android apps. Swift for iOS. In all cases, I'd most likely manage to deliver what my stakeholders are expecting in a reasonable timeframe.

So you'd go with accidentally popular tools instead of the right tool because you don't understand what any of these tools can do.

&gt; So you seem to detest dynamic languages and love static types.

I already told you this: there's no evidence that dynamic typing has an important value in practice. And I've experience with various dynamically typed languages. I assume you don't have experience with statically typed languages because you just keep repeating how you would use this or that language instead of explaining your choices. You're just following bandwagons without understanding the core concepts of programming languages.

&gt; You havn't said much about it though. What language do you use professionally?

C++, sometimes C.

&gt; Are your stakeholders happy with your work?

Yes, because I don't give up quality to write unsafe, slow and shit code.

&gt;  Can your team maintain your code base over time? Are you trusted by your peers, managers and users to take on harder and harder problems?

Yes. Are you?

&gt; Where is your data backing your opinions?

In the real world where almost everything relies on static typing - while your "opinion" relies solely on your feelings.

&gt; But mostly, why do you believe static types is the single greatest characteristic of a programming language, and what kind of static type systems do you believe is best?

It's not about believing - it's about proving it. It's not static typing what matters - it's what it introduces. Look at how Rust, C++, Nim etc. solve certain problems - can you do the same with dynamic typing? Of course not - *data is data and you need the types to work with them efficiently and comfortably, and for the compiler to optimize the code properly*.

Do you understand what can we do nowadays with static typing?

&gt; Listening to you, it sounds like by choosing a static type system language, your programs suddenly become amazing, beating all competition, smashing all expectations, etc.

1. I never said any of those - you're just creating a satire because you don't want to deal with the truth

2. but partially it's true because you'd never be able to create a proper browser, AAA game, OS etc. in a dynamically typed language. Even if it'd have a compiler you'd need to waste too much time with it to work

&gt; I mean, Clojure is my only dynamic language experience professionally, so I find that claim a little exaggerated.

I guess clojure is your only experience with programming. Some of your statements are so ignorant that I don't even know what to say.

&gt; I didn't really find Clojure changing much, appart for boosting my productivity and being more fun.

I used clojure too for almost a year(for hobby projects) and I had as much productivity with it as with Racket(but a bit better due to the JVM). I don't choose a language based on how much fun I'll have with it - *I want benefits*.

&gt; So I wonder what are the startups that beat the competition due mostly to their choice of static type systems?

Since when do startups care about quality, performance or maintainability? They only want to create some marketable shit fast(literally, broken prototypes which sometime don't even work) and then move to the next startup. They don't matter - they're amateurs. BUT you can see how much problems facebook and twitter had with their dynamically typed runtimes - that's why they replaced it. For basic webprogramming it won't matter that much because at the end you're working with text. But if you want to write great software without serious sacrifices you should consider proof systems - and the basic ones(which can help with more things) with the most productivity can be found in statically typed languages.

[If you can guarantee the order and spacing of the jump targets, you don't even need a table of function pointers.](https://godbolt.org/z/iR_AB2)

Unless you run IPv6 with NAT, which is certainly not an uncommon thing with ISPs to my knowledge. Might not be the norm, but ISPs typically haven't provided the best security for their clients in any way.

It lets you work on remote files like they are local, within your emacs session that you have on your own computer.  

Here's a good writeup of this guy's use case:

https://swizec.com/blog/cool-thing-thursday-emacs-tramp-mode/swizec/5646

If you like reading the manual:

https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/draft/manual/html_node/tramp/Quick-Start-Guide.html

He's currently the most subscribed channel on YouTube, about to lose this title to an Indian record label called T-Series.

His followers have been trying very hard to delay his falling to #2 by pushing others to subscribe to him (and/or unsubscribe from T-Series). 

It seems to be working; initial predictions showed he'd be dethroned by mid-October. It's December now and he's still on the top.

&gt;  if Ada was the project language, this disaster would probably never have happened.

This specific disaster, maybe. But maybe other disasters would have happened because of the choice of Ada.

You don't seem to understand the limits of your analysis.

What do the numbers on the top mean?

thats the point.

So you not only believe all things that are written on Medium, but also all things you believe are written there? That's impressive.

I mean, js is turing complete so it's definitely possible to do with any architecture. Actually making it in Javascript though...

There’s some unusual details of this lighting scheme that would affect gameplay if you changed them.

The player has no visual memory of previously seen halls. Providing memory would undermine the shadow effect a bit. On the other hand you could exploit it by changing the walls when they are out of sight.

Is the user an omniscient viewer from above, or is the user only able to see what the player sees (just from a top-down angle)? The shadow effect implies the latter, but the 360° vision implies the former. You could resolve this by making the 360° lantern light into more of a flashlight.

The BBC's title is a lot cleaner:

&gt; Word processor pioneer Evelyn Berezin dies aged 93

Check out Idris and its relatives.

Flexibility simply pushes the problem elsewhere.

Complexity in the problem space has to be dealt with somewhere.  The problems solved by software usually can't be simplified externally -- payroll is payroll, no matter many frameworks you throw at it.

Introducing flexibility simply pushes the complexity from that framework/system/class/architecture onto someone else.  Each act of doing so creates tension between the producer and the consumer of that newly introduced flexible component.  The consumer now has to configure and operate the component correctly to solve their problem.  Whereas a single purpose component only does what it says on the tin.

It's a simple escaping scheme. When you're limited to ASCII, options are few. The real horrors are in the Unicode standard itself.

&gt; but assist in finding a man's to circumvent their software, if they get a request.

No, but you have to assist in circumventing your panties, if you get a request.

There is no coproduct of monads. However since the free monad functor is left adjoint, the coproduct of two free monads exists as the free monad over the coproduct of underlying endofunctors (which exists because the underlying types category has coproducts).

That's a practical question to answer ("how do I compose monads in the 'or' sense generically"), with the answer given via category theory (you don't, but here's a generic class for which you can).

The monad abstraction is also not really about state. State propagation is one thing it describes, but really it just describes another flavor of composition which also works for asynchronous computations and short-circuiting error handling, among other things.

Which really is probably the best way to sum up what category theory is: it's the study of compositional patterns and how they interact. It provides a vocabulary to talk about those patterns, and has the double edged sword that it can describe itself (i.e. it can describe the compositional behavior of compositional patterns), which in some ways simplifies things, but also leads to very abstract concepts very quickly.

You don't need diagram chasing and the snake lemma, but it gives a useful vocabulary to talk about concepts that people use all the time, and having that vocabulary enables us to form thoughts and ask questions that we otherwise couldn't, which helps to understand the design space.

...cuz they raping e'er body up in dere

You don't think that more subscribers corresponds to more views which correspond to more revenue?

Fascism is coming folks.

Ant-encryption isn't going to be used to prevent terror attacks, it will be used to squash organized political opposition to those in power.

To say the {most|least}

Nope. It's entirely relevant.

Dynamic = always *interpreted* parts of the language semantics, no matter how you actually implement this interpretation.

Static = can be compiled.

&gt; Yes, there is manual labor in writing preconditions, etc. But you would do that anyway with static typing - writing the types of your functions and variables.

But with static typing I can get better performance, better refactoring, better code-completion and simpler codebase.

\&gt; real-time

You keep using that word. I do not think it means what you think it means.

&amp;#x200B;

I disagree that code reviews are negative. I think you mean something different than the people who find them useful mean by them. IN short, the problem is code reviews [the way you've seen them done] may suck, but code reviews can be done properly.

The keys are:

1. It should be egoless.  If your leads/seniors are assholes, you are doomed. Not just at code review processes, at surviving and thriving as a tech entity.  If senior management isn't invested and competent, you are also doomed.

2. It should be focused and only about correctness.

3. Seniors need to understand that they are not to use their seniority to force other people to change correct code.

4.  Code reviews that are about style and formatting are bullshit.  I have literally seen code reviews become battlegrounds for indentation style microagression in teams.

Assuming the VPN and/or printer were set up properly to allow printing across the VPN.  If it's not plug-and-play, don't expect it to be set up right.  If it IS plug-and-play, someone probably did something wrong, so don't expect it to be set up right.

&gt;So, yesterday, in order to dispell any doubt about just how irrelevant the software SJWs have become, they declared that *Domain Driven Design* was exclusionary and offensive because DDD is – wait for it – wait for it – *a bra size*.

Does anyone have a source for that? It just sounds so absurd I can't believe it

It's for performance tracking. The top number is the number of wall edges in the scene. The bottom number is the number of wall edges that are actually used in the shadow casting algorithm - a technique I used to save on calculation time.
It sped things up a bit where there were many edges in a scene.

I'd expect that it comes down to two key advantages: It runs on a very popular platform, and it offers a REPL with easy *visual* feedback as you progressively develop toy projects, making it a "fun" platform to play around with on your own. So many people have tinkered with HTML/CSS/JS already, even if they've never set aside time for formal study or training, so it's an easy platform to reach for.

You're getting downvoted by his 10 year old subscribers.

It's a pretty poor term. It derides people who dare to have a life outside of work, and contributes to the idea that programmers have to work insane amounts of hours if they want to be in this industry.

Hmmm. I like the idea of the flashlight... I went with the 360 degree torch effect as it's more medieval-like, but I understand what you mean re. true "line-of-sight" dynamics. Something to think about!
The ability to "remember" previously seen areas is something I might consider adding in. Otherwise it's difficult to remember where you have been on the world / map.

Probably with Signal being pulled from phone app stores In Australia.

It's not a hack and hackers have always been like that. Nice try ultra normie

Exactly. Corporations and governments (which are largely indistinct at this point), don't want you to have privacy. 

It makes it harder for them to squash political opposition, and it makes it harder for them to know what they can sell you and/or what you're willing to pay for a good/service.

Some neo feudalism dark ages shit is ahead of us.

What I can recommend is to restrict yourself to only the POSIX make specification. Your makefiles will work on all unix systems with all make implementations.

i was under the impression that its employees in australia. good question

Yes, here, just install this 12-year-old Cisco VPN client, and then run this registry hack because it isn't supported on any OS later than Windows XP. Good. Now, let's just get you an Active Directory account, yes. Oh, the Deterministic Network Enhancer made your Windows 10 machine bootloop? Ah, sorry. Well, there's a Kinko's across the street.

You missed the part where nearly every business in existence needs a website and JavaScript is the only front-end scripting language that's fully supported by the major web browsers. The ECMAScript specification is a very important technical reason why JavaScript is the only option.

The supply didn't cause the demand.

One could probably dual license, like qt does: https://www.qt.io/licensing/

Choosing something that is very copyleft would deter most businesses from using it in commercial products.

Using just an open source license wouldn't really work because restricting the usage of an application is the opposite of what FOSS licenses are intended for.

There's always lua

Who will pull it and to what end though? Those who have it will continue to be able to use it, so it won't allow access to the communication. Signal will lose a bunch of customers and gain nothing.

I responded to someone who claimed it doesn't count as "prior art" because those weren't patented.

Of course they knew.  It wasn't an accident and there's no evidence they started before they met him.

I'd rather not have my code be used to circumvent American democracy nor be used to violate people's personal privacy that they trusted me with.

But idk I guess making a small number of people billionaires was worth it I guess.

&gt; and a few other things for no technical reason.

Dunno. I think people that are happily using JavaScript for server side, mobile and desktop applications would disagree with you on that one.

Doesn't matter. No one will delete their FB account

woah go easy on the personal attack, no need for that kind of hate.

False dichotomy. But given the choice, I'd much rather write amazing code at a series of unsuccessful companies. Money is nice and all, but if I were only in it for the money, my resume would look very different.

Sometimes I'll set the response encoding of the web server to utf16, ucs-4, utf-7, or utf-32, just to stress test browsers.

They all fail.

&gt; Dynamic = always interpreted parts of the language semantics, no matter how you actually implement this interpretation.

V8 didn't have an interpreter until recently. V8 used to generate native code right from the get-go.

&gt; Static = can be compiled.

Same goes for dynamic languages. It just means that more native code needs to be generated, because you have to cover more cases.

That article doesn't bring a lot to the table does it. It mentions Grace Hopper, like most others who want to make a point about women. It says that back in the day, computer programming was seen as a simple task, and Hopper is quoted comparing it to "preparing dinner" -- like that would appeal to today's women. The last claim it makes, without base, is that men wanted to elevate programming out of women's sphere. No mention on how they did that or why. It's a weak piece.

Yes, there very good choices right now. I have never touched Lua but rust and go can replace nodejs in 99% of the scenarios, even more so every next day with the improvements on webassembly. I try to eradicate it every chance I get. The downside is I feel like 60% of the developers know only JavaScript and it's generally harder finding talent for other technologies.

Do they have to comply if they have no physical representation in the country? Whom the courts would serve with summons?

essentially a "hobbyist" license really

It was probably mentioned by a few and then blown out of proportion.

In this case it's justified, after all, it's only a troll, and therefore a fair game.

It sounds plausible that everything he wrote about there is actually *true*, since there are plenty of idiots saying stupid shit on the internet.

And now Uncle Bob is one of them. He got played. Congratulations to whoever put these wild ideas into his head.

I'm answering your question with an accurate answer -- of course you're right in that response, the person you're responding to doesn't know about the patent system.

&gt;Of course they knew. It wasn't an accident

How do you possibly know that?

&gt;there's no evidence they started before they met him.

There's also no evidence that they didn't -- there's simply no evidence. Why do you leap to an assumption of ill intents when there's no evidence to suggest that's the case?

Fascism is already here in baby-forms across the world. We're fucked.

Them? I am one of them. I don't ask about political views or religion or a variety of other things I consider as being not relevant to doing your job. But candidates often make their political views known on an interview in subtle ways. I also don't ask for gender or ethnicity on job applications.

I do tell candidates that we are a diverse workplace and that they will need to be tolerant of behaviors and views of the world that are different from their own. Which is why - just for example - a conservative Christians would feel comfortable at my company. And has accepted my job offers and can vouch for me as a fair employer who embraces diversity. Likewise for radical liberals or someone who has a very weird hobby.

I can't speak for others who try to embrace diversity. You should ask them.

&amp;#x200B;

&gt; V8 didn't have an interpreter until recently.

JIT compiler *is an interpreter*, since it's using information only available in runtime.

&gt; It just means that more native code needs to be generated, because you have to cover more cases.

Nope.

You cannot do it *efficiently*.

Go on, implement a Tcl compiler that'd be more efficient than an interpreter.

I have learned that there is no point in interacting with a lower class of people.

That's the issue though. As the article states, Signal *by design* minimizes the ways that you can centrally spy on users via the software. Sure there are means that can be put in to decrease Signal security, but the cost is, well, a decrease in security.

Up until recently, Signal messages were signed with the Sender ID when going through the servers, now even that is removed and only the Recipient ID is known to the server. Realistically the only thing the Signal devs could do is share Recipient IDs upon request, but I believe they'd rather pass.

Because there were times when networks/connections weren't 8-bit clean.

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/8-bit_clean

Apple/Google Play in response to a law enforcement request, and eventually old clients will no longer connect to the service. 

Signal won’t lose any customers, they’re a nonprofit organization.

They factor some things in, but not everything. The gender pay gap for the same job in the same organisation with the same experience is very small. Current thinking is that this is down to negotiation skills, but when you factor in the fact that (eg) men are - on average - willing to search in a wider area they potentially:

1. Have more offers to work/negotiate with.
2. Have a longer commute/relocation to factor in to a package.
3. Are going to be able to target more, higher paying jobs in the first place.

What isn't measured at all is flexi-time, early retirement, number of paid holidays, maternity leave (over and above legal requirements), job security etc - a myriad of factors that contribute to the real value of a package and that motivate choices in people with different outlooks. Women are over-represented in secure public sector work, for example.

Yep, that's pretty much it. You can make a fuckload of money in the short term by delivering POS solution (no, not point-of-sale, despite the happy coincidence of an acronym), and by the time shit starts blowing up in your face, you can afford to go on a hiring frenzy and just fix it by throwing more manpower at it.

There's also this ancient schism between the "worse is better" and "do things right" cultures, and mixing a misunderstood "worse is better" philosophy with hypercapitalism is, well, not a very good idea.

&gt; I feel like, while it's not a lot to go by, it is more than people arguing with me in this thread. Who only have their personal experience and nothing more. Also, they did not mention what that experience was either and with what specific language, so they're not giving much info to reason with. 

We gave you more than our "feelings" for sure. You just ignore them because as you said you've nothing to argue with. You're literally the worst kind of redditor - you dismiss what other people say because you don't like it and then you're just waving around with your feelings. 99% of your comments are just rambling uncertainly about bullshit. You were probably lying when you said you're a team lead because you really have nothing to show.

Google and Apple are more than willing to remove apps from their stores for certain countries. I really doubt that will do much though, since privacy-conscious enough to use Signal will be able to find a standalone APK.

Pity you

I gave a talk the other day, and my notes are literally a few short bullet in *very* sloppy handwriting on a crumpled-up post-it note that I threw away before giving the talk because I couldn't actually read it. The talk went surprisingly well!

So you're saying to code less for a month ? What's the purpose of posting that here ?

Can't wait to see a cyberpunk dystopia with my own eyes.

You wrote:

&gt; PO pushes tickets into the sprint  
&gt; Team pulls tickets from backlog strictly honoring backlog item order  
&gt; Team pulls tickets from backlog overruling backlog item order

The second one is true, but only in the context of the sprint planning. Outside of the sprint planning there should be no change to the sprint scope. If the PO requires one ticket to be added to the sprint scope (e.g. emergency) then the PO can talk to the team if he can add the ticket, with the result of another ticket dropping out of the sprint.

In Scrum the PO prioritizes the backlog items, then in the sprint planning the team plans tickets from the Backlog for the next sprint while honoring the prioritization from the PO. The team solely decides how many tickets are taken to the next sprint. If the team decides that they can only take one tickets because the need to resolve technical debt to solve it, then so be it. The team is responsible for the product quality.

They would probably go one level up and serve summons to the distributors, namely Google and Apple.

&gt; IMAP is a living protocol with many RFCs adding extensions. One of those is RFC 6855 which lets a server and client negotiate UTF8=ACCEPT capability and drop all the UTF-7.

Neither dovecot nor cyrus appear to support that RFC yet.
I wonder if it even makes sense to focus on that instead of
working on implementing JMAP server- and client side.

Idris and Whiley support contract. Idris supports this via tactics and its pattern matching, but it's done in a more indirect/implicit manner than in Ada or Whiley.

So in Idris you have direct access to the internal theorem prover built into the compiler. You then have editor shortcuts to reify expressions, split/expand expressions and add placeholder expressions. If you have added enough proofs, you can get the compiler to "autocomplete" whole function implementations or even the whole program for you. Which I think where some of the Idris hype comes from. 

But this is less useful than it sounds. Why? Because if your proofs are so complex and elaborate that it allows the compiler to infer the unique implementation as enforced by the types, then you have just moved all your application's complexity into the proof! Who knows how many bugs the proofs/specification has :)

The art I think, is to find a balance.

Half way through the article I had to come back to see if this was /r/programminghorror.

Just the fact that they are willing to try out a law like this is enough to send companies fleeing. Rolling it back isn't going to stop the fleeing unless they introduce some new laws/rights that make it harder for them to try shit like this again.

Obviously I don't know however I don't believe it was accidental.  They either started the process after the meeting or they were involved with it at the time of the meeting.

In either case I simply don't believe they were unaware.  It wasn't just the author of the article, there was tons of other prior art that he/she discussed with them.

And note how their first response was to try and continue with a clearly invalid patent by bribing the author with being added to it.

I'm not making a legal case but I'm sure as fuck not giving them the benefit.

&gt; JIT compiler is an interpreter

No, these are two separate things.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interpreter_(computing)  
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Just-in-time_compilation

Ignition is the name of the interpreter which was added to V8.

https://v8.dev/docs/ignition

&gt; You cannot do it efficiently.

That's not the topic.

Why wouldn’t Phil get on VPN? Why do we need to increase our attack surface area?

And jobs lost. I wouldn't be surprised if many big companies instantly offered their Australian employees relocation packages.

The scar most certainly would be. That's what this post is claiming, that the change is permanent. It isn't.

Is this [Poe's law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Poe%27s_law) in action or just pure ignorance? I can't tell...

&gt; JavaScript is so popular because it is goddamn decent at everything

Decent at what?! It has a weak-mediocre runtime with shitty performance(no, being better than python's default interpreter is not an achievement - it's like running faster than a 5 years old), shitty semantics(very poor OO and FP support), bad concurrency and parallelism story, no standard library(spamming insecure "micro-libraries" aren't going to solve this - in fact, it's the worst solution in the history of software dev), idiotic package management and packaging policies and it's also known to have more stupid quirks than any other language.

It's barely tolerable for front-end development where it's "native" and for everything else it's one of the worst choices.

&gt; while being far and beyond the best scripting language around.

According to what standards? In 2018, it's not even close to be an "ok" scripting language, let alone the "best". 

&gt; I get approximately three to four times the performance of python with approximately the same code, which is *syntactically similar to Java / c#*

Comparing js to java and c#, this must be a joke...

It isn't the only article I've read that claims women dominated the field in the 1950s. Feel free to debunk it with a better source.

"Between  30 and 50 percent of programmers were women in the 1950s, and it was  seen as a natural career for them, as evidenced by a 1967 *Cosmopolitan* feature about “[Computer Girls](https://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2016/09/what-programmings-past-reveals-about-todays-gender-pay-gap/498797/).”  

[https://timeline.com/women-pioneered-computer-programming-then-men-took-their-industry-over-c2959b822523](https://timeline.com/women-pioneered-computer-programming-then-men-took-their-industry-over-c2959b822523)

You're correct that Google/Apple will pull them but I don't see why Signal would ever block old clients.  There is no mechanism by which the government can force Signal to stop providing a service.

Hahaha, no! E.g. I work as a R&amp;D gamedev programmer, 8h/day, 5days/week and I will code 1h/day on a project, keeping a devlog, outside of the work hours.

&gt; No, these are two separate things.

You don't know much about interpretation and compilation, do you? Please avoid using wikipedia as an authority, ok?

&gt; That's not the topic.

It is. An ad hoc interpreter that you unavoidably embed in your "compiled" code is still an interpreter.

&gt; Because really, you can NOT anticipate the performance based on a mere sum of per instruction count for a given trace.

Of course. Have a look at how compiler backends cost models work - they're taking into account which execution units are affected.

&gt; So anyway; profile your program.

If you're a compiler backend, you cannot do it. You still must have a cost model as accurate as possible.

Hackers haven't been "always" like that. Hacking was more of a "just for fun" thing when the Internet was in its initial phases. Hackers used to "joyride" other systems taking advantage of Dial-Up connections and boast.

Pewds has 72mil subs and someone like Logan Paul has 17 but they both get the same amount of views so by your predictions pewds should get 72mil views every video he makes?

that's like writing a great novel no one reads vs writing a good enough novel that people actually read. sure, some might like spending years writing a book that never gets published, relegated to oblivion, for the purity of literature. Others get great satisfaction from having their work (be a book or software) actually be used.

Maybe YOU should. Ur mom gay.

I second number 2. Hand to look her up and can agree. She's either the smartest hottie, or the hottest smartie!

Every interview I've ever gone for has asked for gender/ethnicity. My company constantly celebrates removing as many white people as possible from positions, with supported people making comments bemoaning how white men are still occupying high-tier positions. It is relentless, and never about merit or ideology or anything else. It's always skin colour and genitals. Skin colour and genitals.

That would be C, java etc.

Lmao you sound like you're 12 and just saw a free 90's hacking movie on basic cable. "Joyriding dialup" Jesus christ dude lol

Workaround? Its literally using the operating system features, so that every app in the world doesnt have to do a shitty reimplentation. Adding so much cruft to software when the os already does what you want is why its all bloated mess half the team (see visual studio proper for an excellent example of this)

would be nice to have this kind of article for golang based Makefile, since this article is really targetting gcc/g++ based compilation,

Ridiculous question, it's owned by FB.

Wait really? Every 2-man+ shop I've worked with for over a decade has this infrastructure in place, the vast majority have Fortigate hardware but even basic ones have some form of VPN. Hell, use Hamachi if you need to, advertised usage is not the only usage.

"We're sorry you found out." Sounds more appropriate.

Not sure about the downvotes but I agree, crossing subnets can be difficult to configure even with "enterprise" (read: less consumer bloatware) printers.

*It's not a bug, it's a feature.*

&gt; I can attest that Category theory has been pretty much useless in terms of improving how I program. 

This implies that you still have a lot to learn.

&gt; This still isn't a property of the language. It's not something you'd find in a language's specification.

Nope. The amount of *dynamic* features that must be interpreted one way or another is exactly a language property.

Better than the shit I got up to with unprotected college printers

Whole page 250,250,250 or a bit more. 

"You're running out of ink" in 255,255,255

Print 500 copies or more.

Or

Your printer is unsecure! Over and over, with print jobs being sent hourly by script to all printers on the network I shouldn't have access to.  But I was smart enough to run it from someone elses computer that didn't have an admin password.

&gt; Just the fact that they are willing to try out a law like this is enough

There are people that are wanting the same thing in the United States.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FBI%E2%80%93Apple_encryption_dispute

&gt;men are - on average - willing to search in a wider area they potentially:

Source?

&gt;What isn't measured at all is flexi-time, early retirement, number of paid holidays, maternity leave

The study converts all pay to hourly pay, which on its own eliminates those factors. And considering that it showed a widespread and consistent gap between women's and men's pay, if you wanted to claim that women are getting paid less because most women negotiate more paid holidays, you should provide some evidence that that factor is widespread.

Give me one single example where Ada caused a disaster. Or even easier - give me one example where using Ada could cause a disaster due to the choice itself. And don't tell me "Ariene 5" - any competent review of that event will tell you Ada was not even remotely to blame.

A 19 year old student who has Cyber Security as a subject in his college.

They will either follow Australian law, or Australia will probably block Facebook services. So they don't have to summon anyone.

I'm sort of surprised people still watch PewDiePie.

I'd like to see that. I did my part, now do yours. Give me an example of a "vulnerability" that Ada could cause by its nature. I'll wait.

Ehh. Yes and no. We have a satellite office that uses remote desktop to a terminal server to handle erp access. Printing locally through windows in that situation can make you realize how hell in it's typical state would be quite bearable in absence of printers.

Also, they can still provide the apk for updates.

I doubt it will stop the kind of people already using Signal.

My prediction is that increasing subscribers to a channel increases that channels revenue.

People who want to use js everywhere know nothing about other languages and don't understand what is wrong with js. There's also no valid technical reason to use js for backend or for mobile. For desktop you could argue that electron is cheap(even if it's generally garbage) but you don't have to use js because there are far better languages(which are also easy to learn) available for it like typescript.

I like working on legacy code...  

So long as I have the freedom to refactor it as needed, which is something that product/management usually wants to resist. The problem there is product/management though, not the code.

I think this leaves out Ada's very carefully designed structural systems (packages and types). Ada encourages very disciplined encapsulation. You have to really try to make an Ada program monolithic, it is not natural.

Not in 1997 though!

Signal is the only one I trust to never capitulate. Moxie Marlinspike has proven from the start that he genuinely cares about privacy and has the technical capability to make secure products. I would trust pretty much anything he makes.

That's a bold assumption, I myself did the project as part of the interview and can't complain about what I am getting paid.

Obviously, it doesn't go with the reddit trend looks like. Where everyone is evaluated in under an hour.

Yep. It will also help figure out what software is really secure what only pays lip service. Any software remaining in the Australian market, at a minimum has a backdoor.

Oh yeah? "Cyber security" as a "subject" in college? You really sound 12 or like a high school drop out, no freshman majoring in CS especially security talks like that mate lol

Eventually the old clients' encryption will be obsolete.

If you are not going to pay them for that 20 hours, please stop doing that. Anything more than 1 to 2 hours is not healthy.

Fascism has been growing since the first Red Scare. The very definition, before it was turned into a meaningless buzzword, refers to corporations getting in bed with the government and influencing policy. It's a form of right wing syndicalism that operates on the principle that businesses represent the interests of their workers. Which is nonsense and leads to the neofeudalist crap we're dealing with to this day.

It mostly grew out of bourgeoise hate for any form of socialism. Which is a key part of how WWII happened: the Nazi party hated communists (especially Russians) and eventually someone thought up a grand conspiracy between the Communists and Jews and sold the public on the idea of a betrayal that cost them WWI and crippled their economy.

Quite fortunate that UTF-8 is robust as it is.

This is why lobbyists exist

Bitch lasagna

It's owned by facebook, I'd assume it's securely funneling all your communications directly to anyone who wants it

So how was V8 able to do JIT for all those years where it didn't have an interpreter?

If the Wikipedia article is factually wrong, go ahead and fix it. You surely have plenty of sources to back your statements up.

https://v8.dev/blog/ignition-interpreter

Would you also say that the people who worked on V8 don't know the correct terminology?

Interesting style. I'm going to steal this! 

The extra `utils.js` file I guess is the "obscure library dependency" I was referring to. It's relatively straight forward, but once you start adding `Sum`, `Product`, etc... for strings and arrays, you have to admit it'll start to grow. 

Also, you'll probably start getting questions like "why should I use `Arr.fold(Sum)` over strings when `.concat()` is so much more efficient?" (although i suppose you could use some kind of string builder type as "zero", it might make things awkward)

Why don't you put what it is in the title instead of that shitty clickbait.

Based on the guidelines that you just invented without any empirical base. By that reasoning any interview that takes more than a day it should be invalidated also.

Moreover you are free to not continue with the interview, and the interview problems will always be the same ones inside a set. So nothing of value will be created.

Honestly, these tech companies have more authority than some legislators at this point.

Do you pay the interviewees? In that case it would be fine.

Thanks! It's always encouraging to get a complement in r/programming. This is really trial by fire around here! (Not that that's a bad thing)

There was in 1986 when IMAP was created.

&gt; You missed the part where nearly every business in existence needs a website

You're missing ~~two~~ three facts:

1. websites are rarely critical

2. you don't have to use js for front-end - at least, not directly

3. you can create nice and functional websites without js

&gt; and JavaScript is the only front-end scripting language that's fully supported by the major web browsers.

There are a lot of good languages compiling to js. Browsers are more like platforms where js is the assembly(unfortunately).

&gt; The ECMAScript specification is a very important technical reason why JavaScript is the only option.

There's no technical reason to use js. It's only there because it was the first one in the browsers. It's literally a legacy language.

&gt; The supply didn't cause the demand.

False. It's easier to support a single language for browsers - and unfortunately, it was the first scripting language for them. js doesn't have any feature which makes it better at front-end development than most other high-level languages. In fact, the lack of a standard library tailored to front-end dev just increased the traffic in the world.

&gt; It had a greater share of women in it, but it was never "dominated" by them. 

Are you just ignorant? There were periods when the vast majority of programmers were women (as hardware was considered a way more manly endeavor).

I have exhausted my Google fu and can’t find any blog articles claiming the acronym DDD is a problem. 

I was able to find a few posts about the word “craftsman” and “craftsmanship”. 

Would also like to hear if anyone knows who he’s referring to - I don’t see it.

He has definitely grown on me, but it's still too.. *much* for any prolonged watching for my taste.

When I had to write a compiler for school we used [Bison](http://www.gnu.org/software/bison/) to build our abstract syntax tree. With a definition of an expression that can include either a variable, literal, or another expression as the left or right side of an operator the parser handled that for us.

From there it was a ‘simple’ matter of traversing the AST recursively to generate the necessary code starting from the inside out.

Look, your hypothetical speculations are predictable, but unfortunately many of them are empirically false, so I don't know what to tell you other than look at the data. The optimizations you imagine are theoretically possible in AOTs are not possible in practice because they take trillions and trillions of years. In reality, most of the work done by all kinds of compilers is heuristic, and so the question is just what happens in reality. In practice, JITs do more specializations than AOTs, they run programs in languages like JS and Ruby in speeds that AOTs don't even try (an AOT compiler cannot possibly do the constant folding I showed, because there is no way for it to know that the expression is constant without solving halting). I really so no point in arguing what you imagine could be done, would be appropriate etc., when there's so much data right in front of us: to put it very bluntly, JITs run typed languages at speeds comparable with the best AOT compilers, and they run untyped languages orders of magnitude faster. Those are just the plain facts.

&gt; So how was V8 able to do JIT for all those years where it didn't have an interpreter?

Again... JIT compiler *is* an interpreter.

&gt;And note how their first response was to try and continue with a clearly invalid patent by bribing the author with being added to it.

We don't have any evidence that this was the rationale -- more reasonable would be "hey, we were already working on this before we met you, but your research is relevant too, which is why we tried to hire you in the first place." I'd imagine that they believed it was still patentable and distinct from this person's inventions, but you never know. It seems a whole lot more reasonable than "we stole your idea for this semi-useless product that will never make any money."

Seriously, projector-included popup books? Do you really think that's going to make a lot of money?

sidebar:

That's a badass name.

It’s strange to see anti-intellectualism so extreme that you’re hostile to those who merely support ideas you’re scared you may not have the intellect to learn.

But that's not my point. The point is not about such specifics. This is #1 of a planned long-running series. The point of the series is to say, "if that project chose Ada, this famous catastrophe probably wouldn't have happened."

I'm not trying to avoid controversy though, so I fully understand how some people find the post a bit hard to swallow.

He is entertaining enough that a small percent of people will watch him. And since basically everyone knows about him, that means a small percent of a very large amount of people.

As long as he keeps producing content and doesn't screw up too badly, people will watch him.

The perils of centralised software distribution. Google and Apple have both positioned themselves as gatekeepers or what arbitrary mathematical processes the computer in your pocket is allowed to perform.

It was good advice however for an older HP exploit where a printer could be backdoored after receiving a sequence of escape characters

&gt; Signal will lose a bunch of customers and gain nothing.

They will gain reputation as being secure, which is why most of their users switch to it.  Getting pulled from app stores in Australia will be a big win for them in the rest of the world.

They might lose in the long run if other, bigger countries follow Australia's lead.

&gt;  they would be all for people like Damore

Why would anyone be "all for" people who manage to fuck up scientific methodology so massively? Idiots should be kept away from this industry, at all costs.

Then people can download the new apps and sideload them (on open platforms) and have the latest encryption moving forward. You can always bypass a government block somehow (VPNs generally) and no one can stop you from installing your own apps.

Distribution through the app store isn't the only method possible. It's just the (generally) safest and simplest. People who want privacy in this context can get it though.

He used to be a gamer youtuber. Then he started doing vlogs and all kinds of random stuff. I have no idea what he is doing nowadays.

An interesting touch is that the bill explicitly forbids requests for "systemic" compromise; that is, they cannot ask Signal to compromise the service for all users, it has to be specific to the target. But the way Signal is designed, this is practically impossible - I think the closest you can get is pushing a compromised update to the target. But you don't actually need Signal's cooperation for that, just Google / Apple - you can easily fabricate a compromised binary yourself.

This is why I use Signal, even though sending a group text with it is a pain in the ass.

Pure FUD. Find an example and come back. And don't even bother to mention the Ariane 5 disaster which is completely documented to show that it was not a fault of Ada, but program management decision to reuse software in an environment that was outside the software's original specification.

Honestly, this sounds pretty reasonable if you need to send Unicode data through a layer that only understands ASCII.

Do you think you should judge an entire industry based on your company? Just because one company is doing "diversity" in a shitty way doesn't mean "they" all do it wrong. If you wanted to be fair about this - to be better than your company acts - you would base your opinion on large scale studies and data rather than forming an impression with a sample size of a few dozen. We are scientists. Let's stop relying on anecdote.  

And as an aside, find a better company to generate profits for.

What?

For a 5x performance gain, I'm willing to consider switching to rilkef. 

&gt; Who cares that you have to throw out basically all your existing stuff, and if you mix rilkef and non-rilkef you’re gonna run into problems.

Who indeed? If there is 5x on the table, then in 10 years, with enough research to ensure that you never really in practice have to take the slow path, nobody will flopnaxing the ropnars outside of Node anyways, unless they read the wrong blogs. 

Meanwhile, in two weeks the entire Haskell ecosystem will adapt.

I loved to read the Idris book, but I doubt the tooling is already at a level that it could be deployed en mass.

It's like you've never met a woman.

That still isn't the case. You also haven't provided a source for that.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interpreter_(computing)

&gt; In computer science, an interpreter is a computer program that directly executes, i.e. performs, instructions written in a programming or scripting language, without requiring them previously to have been compiled into a machine language program.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Just-in-time_compilation

&gt; In computing, just-in-time (JIT) compilation, (also dynamic translation or run-time compilations), is a way of executing computer code that involves compilation during execution of a program – at run time – rather than prior to execution.

Just read the first two paragraphs:

https://v8.dev/blog/ignition-interpreter

I've been saying that since C++

&gt; People who want to use js everywhere know nothing about other languages

Wouldn't people who program in language X make the same argument for all other languages except language X?

I hardly see this as being a problem with JavaScript alone.

&gt; There's also no valid technical reason to use js for backend or for mobile.

I must politely disagree here - I've witnessed multiple projects where something like React Native was used to satisfactory effect. Now I know this is pretty anecdotal but I've had quite a few potential clients asking about React Native. For Java or Swift, not so much.

Views and ideology, as well as skills, are not given to you at birth. They're entirely your responsibility. And it's totally fine to discriminate people with shitty views and retarded ideologies, as well as people with inadequate skills.

From their front page:

&gt; The Bouncy Castle Crypto APIs are looked after by an **Australian** Charity, the Legion of the Bouncy Castle Inc., which looks after the care and feeding of the Bouncy Castle APIs. 

Uhh...

&gt; Call in the demo squad and start afresh. This is the most expensive option of the three, but it completely removes the problem of legacy. 

Bollocks. A year later that rewritten code is legacy again.

They won’t actively block them, but over time the protocol will differ from what they support. 

People will continue to side load Signal and use it in Australia, but adoption will still be curbed significantly by making it harder to use.

'Influential' and 'shit' aren't mutually exclusive...

&gt; Oh, and a pony while you're at it, Santa.

https://tutorial.ponylang.io/

I'm not Majoring in Cyber Security. I took it as an Elective Subject. And one does not have to Major in Cyber Security to know the history of Internet. :)

No. WWII was directly precipitated by the events hat followed the loss of WWI. Propaganda convinced the public that the effort was going well, so they couldn't believe that victory wasn't achieved, and then the economy was in the toilet because of the war expenditures and massive reparations they were required to pay. The Weimar Republic era was a really horrible depression where people literally burnt money for heat because it was worth so little.

The study you cite doesn't cover the same ground as other studies which show little to no gap. But curious readers will be able to grok this and any other rebutted point with a few seconds searching.

&gt;Moxie Marlinspike

That's what he goes by... real name is Matthew Rosenfield. I 100% agree though about Moxie Marlinspike. I mean, anybody who takes on a name where your first name is Moxie... better be able to back it up. So far he has!!!

If only the slaves spoke up against slavery there would have still been slavery. All people need to discuss obvious problems not just the victims of said problems.

Did not I just tell you to stop referring to Wikipedia?

And I'm absolutely not interested in whatever V8 developers have to say on this matter. Their choice of terminology is completely arbitrary - calling a bytecode execution engine an "interpreter", for example.

JIT compiler is an interpreter. It does not matter at all how exactly interpreter is implemented, what matters is that it's dependent on an information only available in runtime. Even if you fully specialise an interpreter implementation vs. your source code, for a language with too many *dynamic* features the will be enough components of an interpreter remaining (such as, dynamic variable lookups, dynamic method dispatch, and so on) to call even this mode of execution an interpretation.

but shouldn't it save time?

And this (along with that npm update that made linux systems unbootable because permissions) is why all of the JS development tools on my system are in Docker containers or VMs.

It's a small script to get through hotel Wi-Fi limitations (meaning it's extremely temporary), of course it's not perfect and tons of things can be improved and optimized.

Your comment is great and informative but calling his solution sloppy is just pointing out the obvious

Web printing is great so u dont have to download a stupid program to print, my school uses paper cut which always has this irritating pop up on my screen. 

Also just because ur printing something doesn't mean u want it at that moment right, maybe I just wanna print off a recipe at home from work or something

Not to downplay Moxie, but don't forget Trevor Perrin. He is a core source of the magic for the hardest parts of the cryptography

So, I'm having a problem with my code; I'm kind of new to java. This occurs when pressing the button "alta" from the following code:

[Cod](https://imgur.com/a/Jd0F9om)e

I don't think so, Germany lost pretty badly in WWI and got severely punished for it which fuelled Hitler's propaganda machine.

If that was the goal, all of the diversity and HR people should be gone for starters.

Do note: LLVM used to mean _Low Level Virtual Machine_, but it is not an acronym anymore.

It 100% the fault of NAT and uPnP making people feel secure behind it and not configuring a firewall.

See, even *we* argue about what things mean. How are non-techie lawmakers supposed to stand a chance?

And totally fine to discriminate people with undesirable skin colours and genitals?

Fascism never went away. The tree may have fallen but the roots and stump still remain, ready to sprout new branches of oppression and evil.

I very rarely find any company that isn't poisoned by this diversity stuff these days. Major news groups are castrated by it, companies are... everything is very PC and odd.

&gt; It's mostly startup time that I'm not really happy about. Hopefully the new version improves on that.

You have to understand that will be likely no possible for VSCode to have an instant startup due the richness that it provides.

Sublime, VIM, Notepad++, etc. can do it because they lack hundreds of features that VSCode has. If these editors implemented everything that VSC offers, they will suffer from the same startup penalty, to some degree of course.

2-3 seconds startup is not bad at all if you are using it for a project, but if you are using VScode just to take a quick look to a JSON or any other source file, well, that might be your problem, I usually use Notepad2 or Notepad++ for those tasks.

As always, you should strive for use the right tool for the right job, and clearly, VSCode main job is not for open any kind of file under 1 second.

&gt; Look, your hypothetical speculations are predictable

What speculations? I described a very real and practical optimisation case (one I'm closely familiar with).

&gt; The optimizations you imagine are theoretically possible in AOTs are not possible in practice because they take trillions and trillions of years

Lol wut?!? The one I described was implemented and worked perfectly, as I said, it does not even need too much time.

&gt; I really so no point in arguing what you imagine could be done, 

I *implemented* that optimisation (in a GPGPU context - another place where none of that JIT stuff will ever be allowed).

&gt; JITs run typed languages at speeds comparable with the best AOT compilers

(small print: only after warming up a hot path for quite a while, but never mind those GUI hiccups)

Again, I'm not talking about trillions of years - all such optimisations can take hours for a large project, but that's perfectly bearable for release builds.

Of course there's a language called pony. Why am I not in the least  bit surprised?

Sure it was a success but, as a game, humanity should be able to agree that it is (and was) objectively bad. The series is remembered fondly largely because of the campy humor that resonated with a generation and not at all because it was seriously fun or groundbreaking in any way.

&gt; Wouldn't people who program in language X make the same argument for all other languages except language X?

No, why would they? js users don't have any technical argument for js anyway.

&gt; I hardly see this as being a problem with JavaScript alone.

js is a problem itself. js users are an even bigger problem - creating low-quality software with horrendous code.

&gt; I must politely disagree here - I've witnessed multiple projects where something like React Native was used to *satisfactory effect*. 

It was satisfactory probably because there were almost no requirements(the project was very simple etc.) or you just lowered your standards.

&gt; Now I know this is pretty anecdotal but I've had quite a few potential clients asking about React Native. For Java or Swift, not so much.

Clients ask for hyped tech. js users hype js because that's the only language they know. It doesn't mean that js is a good choice - in fact, you can see how slow, unstable an intrusive is the web because of js. But I guess there's another reason: js coders are cheap and those clients probably don't care about UX.

Also, two things: swift is too new, non-tech people won't know what it is; for a lot of people javascript=java - some js coder even think that js has very similar syntax to java...

Objectively speaking, you are being downvoted because your question  insinuates an insult. Answering with a simple yes/no would not suffice and would only create more confusion for future readers. 

But yeah you're right. People like him for completely different reasons though. Find out for yourself if the reasons are valid

Ahead, behind, on the left and right...

Yes obviously reinstalling an OS will undo all configuration changes so it's not technically "permanent". So what's your point? We should never use the word "permanent" in software development?

Language helps to shape your thinking. For someone "about to embark on a programming career" this choice can have big impact on what direction their career takes, and on what skills and habits they develop.

For myself, as a general rule I consider anything more complex than a simple program expressible in one file is too much for Javascript. Can we go back to an age where programming languages and scripting languages were understood to be distinct by intended purpose, and you didn't write multimillion-line monstrosities in a scripting language? Just because a language is Turing-complete doesn't mean it's *good* for all tasks.

It's totally ok to discriminate retards like you. You are not born like this, you became a retarded piece of shit on your own accord.

Traits that are given at birth, as long as they're not crippling your cognitive / physical abilities, would be unfair to descriminate against.

Now, repeat after me, you redpilled subhuman filth: all the "discrimination" against while males you're moaning about only exist in your sick imagination.

You can walk out of a window now. The sooner - the better.

&gt; because it is goddamn decent at everything

It's not.

&gt; while being far and beyond the best scripting language around.

You're delusional.

&gt; approximately three to four times the performance of python 

What next, you'll start comparing it to Rexx or Perl? 

If one shitty language is better than another shitty language, it does not make it "the best", even among the shitty languages.

There's no easy answer. There are a lot of pluses involved in not working at all or not working full time too and these don't seem to ever be acknowledged in these discussions. It's not all bad news, working full time till we are discarded at the age of 65 isn't really the dream, is it?

The US does need to look to Europe re maternity and paternity leave though.

&gt; what is meant

*"… the distinguishing feature of interpreted languages is not that they are not compiled, but that any compiler is part of the language runtime and that, therefore, it is possible (and easy) to execute code generated on the fly."*

[Programming in Lua](https://www.lua.org/pil/8.html)

Yeah sounds like you don't know either or have ever been to college. You take college by choice every class is an elected subject lmao

Didn't I just ask you to provide some sources?

The C2 wiki doesn't agree with you either, by the way.

&gt; Their choice of terminology is completely arbitrary - calling a bytecode execution engine an "interpreter", for example.

Mh? You can interpret bytecode. Executing bytecode instruction by instruction is interpreting it.

&gt; what matters is that it's dependent on an information only available in runtime

According to whom?

The person who did this claimed that they were screwing around and didn’t know what else to print.

Ok I'll bite. First of all, the blog is not claiming that Ada is a silver bullet. Any supporter of any language that makes such a claim is a fool. However, Ada is better than many of the other popular languages when it comes to developing high integrity, safe, and robust software. Even so, it is still possible to have vulnerabilities even in an Ada program. For instance, in Ada's case statement (which is similar to C switch statement), it requires you to cover all possible values. One way to do so is to have a catch all choice just like the "default" in a C switch statement. If the range of values to check changes, that catch all might not allow the developer to know that certain values are inappropriate in certain cases.  That's why there are subsets of Ada, such as SPARK, which take the already \*strong foundation\* of Ada and go even further.  Finally, if you were to take the long list of issues with languages, such as C and C++, and check if they would be allowed in Ada, you will undoubtedly see that it is a \*much\* smaller subset. Now factor in the high cost to address software bugs over the life of a program, especially after it is deployed, then it makes sense to choose a language that can help minimize that cost.

&amp;#x200B;

That's rather far from just dropping the types. And figuring all the rewrites you'd need amounts to writing a significant part of Haskell's compiler; that was just a simple example.

&gt; there's practically a well developed library for everything

 Your requirements must be exceptionally primitive.

High rates of depression among millennial men too. Extremely strong odds it has nothing to do with deciding not to "marry well, have a family, and pursue a career later".

Pretty stupid of him to take such obvious bait.

You could try a perspective projection for that GTA1 kind of look of buildings/walls https://i.ytimg.com/vi/gWLaRiiABNs/hqdefault.jpg

Where does Winston Royce's 1970 paper say waterfall ?

Ah, it's you again. Could you please stop existing? Thank you.

&gt; everywhere

Your perception of "everywhere" is laughably myopic.

&gt; just that everybody uses it.

Stop hanging with the wrong people. There is a huge world outside of that rotten web swamp.

Looooool go away, inferior filth. People like you are just playtoys.

I agree. I hear Telegram is a popular 'secure' IM tool, but my guess is it has more user-friendly features, not because it has security advantages.

I am ready for the bikeshedding of the highest order here. Bring it on! 😁😁😁

IQ distribution is normal, meaning that *half* of the people are below average. Of course you'll find a lot of freaks of all kinds there, even those who genuinely believe that Javascript is a good language.

9 year old*

&gt; Give me one single example where Ada caused a disaster.

Brainfuck never caused a disaster.

Does that mean that Brainfuck is a good choice of a language?

You are shifting the burden of proof, that's not how logic works. Given your posting history, I understand you are heavily invested in Ada. May I suggest maybe you try to diversify your interests a bit? This would go a long way toward making your views on this topic less radical.

I honestly have no idea what you're talking about, nor what some optimization you once implemented for a GPU has anything to do with what I said. I said at the very beginning that JITs are bad for some niche software. But the reality is that in the places they are used -- which nowadays means much of the software in the world -- JITs perform better than AOTs for the wide use cases people use them. Obviously, JITs are not good for certain kinds of software, and they are neither used nor recommended for those cases. But making universal statements about their inadequacy requires a truly exceptional ability for reality-denial. But feel free to write a good AOT compiler for JS.

Or Apple/Google/Microsoft could add the backdoor that effects Signal.

I did a code interview once that was 20 hours.  

I got paid, of course.

The absence of disaster examples simply proves that Ada is hardly used at all, not that it's a good language.

With your reasoning, Brainfuck is a robust language that everybody should use because it's never caused any disasters.

Thanks could look really awesome, great idea!

Terrifying

Hi Philip,

How are you doing? Not happy that I think your presentation and everything you have ever produced sucks? Well, sucks to be you, I guess.

Awesome, I'll give it a try!. But now that you say so.. I bet there's some sort of addon to do the same on VSCode :)

Companies will leave the US over that too if they are forced to make their hardware insecure.

Make sure you stop existing. Subhumans like you deserve no right to live.

This is true. Afaik Telegram doesn't even use end-to-end encryption by default, which even WhatsApp does nowadays.

There are literally millions of companies in the USA. What percentage of those companies have you applied at / worked for? Any of them in the deep south or midwest?

&gt; You can interpret bytecode. Executing bytecode instruction by instruction is interpreting it.

Now, *when* exactly do you stop calling it an interpreter?

Is an infinite call loop typical for the CPS implementations an "interpreter"? It's often called a "mini-interpreter", by the way, although it's completely meaningless.

The only reasonable way to distinguish an interpretation is by an amount of dynamic dispatch it's doing. If your bytecode interpreter translate your bytecode into a direct threaded code first - is it still an "interpreter"?

&gt; According to whom?

Pretty much any PLT specialist out there.

I'm from the UK, perhaps it's just different over here?

I don't think so... Anyone can download a modern encryption library/package for a variety of platforms.

I know not everyone can program, but it's very trivial to encrypt something if you can program. Does that mean every programmer has more authority than the government just because they can keep messages secure?

It's not even necessary to reinstall the OS. You shouldn't use absolute statements when they're absolutely untrue. It's hyperbolic nonsense, which is ironically the same sort of shit programmers complain about end users doing.

Correct. And I think groups don't even have E2EE.

If they gave him an offer then it was a job interview.

can I get a big "fuck you" to this encryption law? what is it with Australia and the EU passing these stupid laws that reflect a very poor knowledge of the history and current state of online culture? I mean, the US with the Net Neutrality repeal and the money paying off representatives is horrible as well and the NSA has hacked the planet a few times over but why would these countries seemingly aspire to control their people  in the same way?  

IMO, 5 eyes is failing because the Western Alliance in general is failing (thanks Trump and Brexit) so domestic surveillance in countries that had relied on their allies for domestic surveillance is ramping up.

&gt; but what if I want to email my printer?

Allow only authenticated users (SMTP Submission) to
email its address. Or, if you can’t do without emailing
the printer from an account on a different mailserver,
set it up so it only forwards email attachments signed
with your private key to the printer and everything else
to the bit bucket.

This is a perfect example of the sharpshooter fallacy.

Yes, these control systems are written in Ada but the main languages used across NASA is C/C++, with a smattering of specific languages.

Instead of focusing on the one tiny example that confirms your bias, maybe you should step back and ask yourself why NASA decided not to use Ada everywhere, and what that says about your claims.

&gt; nor what some optimization you once implemented for a GPU has anything to do with what I said.

That's an example of a *relatively* cheap static optimisation which is very beneficial, and cannot be done by any JIT.

And there is a lot of such cases, where a static compiler can spend few minutes - up to hours and do something that's orders of magnitude beneficial, while a JIT will never have enough time and enough runtime profiling data to do such a transform.

&gt;  I said at the very beginning that JITs are bad for some niche software. 

And they're bad for anything interactive. And for anything short-living. And for anything with too complex global control flow, lacking distinct hot paths.

I.e., for pretty much everything.

They're good for long running server applications which do not have even soft latency requirements. Sounds like a very niche thing to me.

&gt; JITs perform better than AOTs for the wide use cases people use them

And I'm struggling to imagine all those cases (besides the one I mentioned above).

&gt; But feel free to write a good AOT compiler for JS.

Such dynamic languages should not exist (unless they're just toys). They have no benefits whatsoever, only drawbacks.

just open them

&gt;Current thinking is that this is down to negotiation skills

So very little to do with their skill as a programmer? That's pretty much the exact problem.

How would you feel when you learn Chad (formerly on the sales team) earns 20% more than you but isn't very good at programming compared to you? You ok when the boss brushes it off with "Chad negotiates better"? Still feel loyal to that company?

You can use nonGoogle App Stores on Android, or sideload apps without going through any kind of app store if you have the .apk

&gt; Just take your printer behind a firewall or router.

Then someone higher up than you will find a way to
threaten the admin into setting up a port forwarding
so they can print from their smart refrigerator at home.

there's no way in hell I move to Australia these days. I used to want to, then I found out employers there could legally require your fingerprint as a condition of work. That, on top of this law which I honestly didn't think they were stupid enough to pass, has sealed my deal on it. If I'm going to be surveilled I would rather it be in California than Australia or Britain or South Africa or Canada. Its sad that these governments seem to be following the Trumpian model. There's no escape.

This is a dumb title. 

Most people seem to confuse reactive streams and "psuedo" reactive systems as reactive programming. 

True reactive programming is FRP or Functional Reactive Programming. And it's awesome. 

You can check out reflex-frp for Haskell or just Elm the language itself. Both of them implement so called reactive pattern extremely well. 

All other languages which are not pure FP languages are just fooling around.

I fully expect Atlassian to relocate

Just looking at Boxstarter, it's absolutely appalling that the NodeJS team thought it was appropriate to include this in the MSI. 

&gt; Should we tell the users that we're about to install something that disables Windows Updates and Bitlocker, enables automatic logon, and fiddles with UAC for administrative access?

&gt; Nah, just put a tickbox in the MSI that says "Automatically install necessary tools" and call it a day

&gt; Brainfuck never caused a disaster.

Because it isn't used for anything IRL, unlike Ada.

&gt; You are shifting the burden of proof, that's not how logic works.

You made the statement, you should bring the proof. Your statement was not based in logic, it was based in subjective conjecture. 

&gt; Given your posting history, I understand you are heavily invested in Ada. May I suggest maybe you try to diversify your interests a bit? This would go a long way toward making your views on this topic less radical.

No. I believe in Ada. If that bothers you, I am not sorry.

What does @PJL INFO STATUS mean?

It does matter where you source content even when it's the same well connected continent. The current network paths to your streaming device can have vastly different streaming performance due to network saturation.  Google has an interesting paper on how equal cost multi-path routing algorithms are still not widely adopted.   This means a router will often choose one path to send packets rather than choose many concurrent paths.  In short, you could be in Italy and the UK path would be less saturated and better performant for you, than the Germany path.  This of course can change in the middle of a movie, so having the client always probing  is a good thing.  

&amp;#x200B;

I would guess that Netflix is using route data and performance data to actively track network health and even proactively move clients around to faster parts of the internet.

&amp;#x200B;

&amp;#x200B;

Not every device with a browser supports c and/or Java, but most will run JavaScript

This is less about FRP and more about the observer pattern commonly used and described as a 'reactive' solution. As you have noticed. I also dont know enough about FRP to have a valid opinion on it. I thought it would be clear if I didn't include 'functional' in the title.

A long time ago I did do research the concept, but I didn't enjoy the idea of switching from 'tell this to do something' to 'do something as a result of something else'. From my experience I learned that more explicit is usually better, and to always be weary of implicit code. Implicit code hides it's intentions thus making it more difficult to understand. So I dropped learning FRP as a result.

yea, they're fucked.

no

Edit: Why is this receiving downvotes? I just answered the question.

Am I right that this is just another way of saying "CSON": 

https://github.com/snawaz/cson

?

Memes.

&gt;Security, Correctness, Performance, Expressivity.

Ah, shit, I forgot JS was missing all those features. Damn.

Unless I'm mistaken (my powershell is admittedly not strong), I'm pretty sure the script that is included in the referenced commit grabs boxstarter from the internet and then immediately runs whatever script it happened to grab with admin permissions.

it will play out by people getting their privacy fucked by governments, hackers and corporations alike.  

Incredibly stupid from a security perspective. This does not help government solve crimes (people that want to encrypt can still do so with trivial work) while private citizens who don't want to break the law will be vulnerable.   

Fuck everything about this law. I fear it will somehow make it to the US.

Its open source. Anyone paranoid about security is vendoring and building from source.

&gt; The problem is that everyone is constantly inventing tools instead of just using the tools to move on.

Problem?

It's a **good thing** that we constantly strive to invent new tools, learning from older tools.

This is what gave us C#, Kotlin, and Swift, three languages which are universally acknowledged as excellent in the coding practices they support and promote.

&gt; and cannot be done by any JIT.

I don't understand what this has to do with this discussion, though. Did I say that there are no optimizations that could be done by an AOT and not a JIT? I said that there are some that can be done by AOTs and not JITs, and some that can be done by JITs and not AOTs, and that the reality is that in the huge portion of software where JITs are used, they perform really well.

&gt; And they're bad for anything interactive.

They are not. I think you're uninformed.

&gt; I.e., for pretty much everything.

Right, except that this is a clearly counterfactual statement, and I know you know that. Much of the world's software these days is written in Java and JavaScript. I challenge you to write AOT compilers that outperform the current JITs. And please don't say something like "who cares about JS" or "people shouldn't write in JS" or whatever. This is not what we're talking about.

&gt; And I'm struggling to imagine all those cases (besides the one I mentioned above).

No need to imagine, once you choose to speak about software by actual observation rather than speculation.

&gt; Such dynamic languages should not exist (unless they're just toys). They have no benefits whatsoever, only drawbacks.

Oh. You said that. OK, I think this discussion is over.

&gt; ask yourself why NASA decided not to use Ada everywhere, and what that says about your claims.

https://www.adacore.com/press/lasp-selects-gnat-pro-for-clarreo

You're right, in the app development world I live in, when reactive code is mentioned this is what they mean. Some sort of Rx solution to a problem that wasn't really there to begin with. Maybe I should of called it oop reactive programming 😄.

I think it makes a better case for abandoning the idea that source code's on-disk representation must be text. If it was up to the IDE where and how to display braces, everyone could have their preferred formatting *and* eliminate such errors at the same time. Bonus that comments, (multi-line) string literals, regexes, etc. can be presented better, with less need for manual escaping. Furthermore, you could mix languages within a single file unambiguously. With a binary format, you would even have the guarantee that a valid file will not contain syntax errors.

A better solution would be to define it in as strict terms as is possible given certain hardware implementations. Unfortunately, this goes against the "this shit can run on the brain neurons of your cat if you can be bothered to port a compiler" ethos of C and C++.

A solution that Rust goes for is checking integer overflow in the default "debug" mode, then turning such checks off in "release" mode. The idea being that overflow-related bugs are more likely to be spotted during development without causing performance problems in production code. However, Rust is also more specific about overflow behaviour and specifies that all overflows occur in accordance with two's complement behaviour.

Personally, I favour Rust's approach - but it has its issues. Some platforms are downright weird, and porting Rust code to them can sometimes mean emulating certain integer operations with extra instructions to provide the well-defined behaviour that is expected. That said, I believe that i386, x86_64, ARM32, ARM64 and most other "common" architectures support two's complement form without requiring software emulation.

Oops yeah sorry didn't see you were using it already. What's the problem though? They are the same apart from the one extra line in the Kotlin version?

Looking at your comment history all I can see is that you're one angsty entitled individual...

It doesn't. I don't know who put that name up - but it's for this very paper.

Now it’s memes/news with comedy with the very occasional game

Sorry, not trying to be “ACCKKUALLY” guy, and agreed! :)

Mr Beast did some work

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qZNxvnQv0h4

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mGIpOtncmSM

I wish we were in a cyberpunk dystopia. There'd be street samurai and cybernetic implants and squads of Shadowrunners having moving gunbattles in 300 story office complexes. This is more /r/ABoringDystopia.

You say old school.. but this is what is saturating the modern native app development world D:

I use telegram because I don't own a smartphone and it's the only app that's multiplatform. 

The Telegram people felt too much security would hinder functionality. In a world that's already dominated by Whatsapp and FBMessenger it would be impossible to break into when only selling 'security'  and not extra functionality. 

It's a problematic choice on the one hand but on the other I do understand it. 

What Telegram did in order to be secure is that they chopped up the keys and store a part of each key in a different jurisdiction. 

It's a legal trick instead of a technological one. 

Wonder how long it will hold.

&gt; They are not. I think you're uninformed.

No, thank you very much, I use Java GUI applications frequently. They're very annoying.

&gt; Much of the world's software these days is written in Java and JavaScript.

And a lot of it just sucks.

&gt; I challenge you to write AOT compilers that outperform the current JITs. 

No need to. Use gcc or clang/llvm.

&gt; Oh. You said that. OK, I think this discussion is over.

Mind providing *any* justification at all for existence of such languages? Just, any? Don't tell me they're somehow more "productive", that'd be a lie.

yep, I am 100% that they would rather pull out of Australia than risk their reputation. Other companies who have broken their promise to customers have historically been hurt by breaking their encryption while companies that refuse to break their encryption for any reason frequently are respected.

I would love to help solve crimes but not at the expense of the privacy of the many people that rely on that encryption being effective. If we want to fight crime then it will have to be done without breaking the codes that underpin public security.

Yeah, that's the only VPN there is.

Apparently something claimed by Sarah Mei on Twitter, yesterday-ish.  Whether she's a credible source on any of that, I don't know: I don't follow this stuff, as a general rule, but I've seen it surface, elsewhere.

/r/titlegore

Reminds me of another game called Teleglitch.

Yeah, I don't see anyone using anything Atlassian if there's a decent chance their security is purposefully compromised.

Just depends. I think many people have these kinds of snapshots in their mind of what a language is, from when they used it last. Or they lack broader perspective.  
  
Sometime back a guy was trolling Java, railing against poor generics support, poor ORM support, and poor function pointer support... it was kind of confusing to me as most of those features are de jour to ‘modern Java’. Sure, 1.4 was a shitty place to be but we’re well beyond that.  
  
Python is the same, with people railing against dependency management issues at times... you mention ‘virtual environment’ and the void of their ignorance stares back at you. Legacy Python supporters are also now silently brooding over their derelict scripts, because nobody wants to hear about their problems - we’re beyond the winging.  
  
I will say that Node does have some dependency management issues that other languages don’t have, but let’s face facts - no stdlib is a glaring thing. If we piece-by-piece install components of standard libs of other languages like Node/npm, any other language dep tree would also be heinous lol....  
  
People grow stale, while languages rarely sit still (unless completely dead).  What can we do but ignore them?

So now I have to learn three languages? What other C-syntax language do I need to learn next year?

It won’t land you in prison. It is worth no one’s time to prosecute this.

&gt; No. I believe in Ada. If that bothers you, I am not sorry.

There's nothing wrong with beliefs, except when you only have one.

There are plenty of modern languages that not only match Ada in safety on a lot of fronts, but also offer additional features that don't exist in Ada.

Which is why Ada is largely irrelevant today.

The hiccups you experience in Java are not due to the JIT, and I am not interested in discussing language choices

You should have seen his other 17 accounts. (he got banned a lot)

The best kind of accurate.

the kind of person that is capable of all that is capable of designing their own encryption if they wanted to.  

The problem with this law is that non-technical people who unwittingly rely on encryption everyday to keep their basic identity safe will be very vulnerable.  

People who know tech likely are laughing at how easy this would be to bypass for a mildly competent nerd. Problem is that those people are not in government, luddites are.

The second happens when your repository list gets long enough to not see it when looking for others

&gt; In another case in Brooklyn, a magistrate judge ruled that the All Writs Act could not be used to compel Apple to unlock an iPhone. The government appealed the ruling, but then dropped the case on April 22 after it was given the correct passcode. 

Eventually, someone is going to have a long password and/or other better security measures and there's won't be a third party capable of breaking it in a reasonable amount of time.

Then the courts will actually have to decide.

&gt; Apples iOS 8 software has encryption mechanisms that make it difficult for the government to get through. Apple provided no backdoor for surveillance without the company's discretion. However, Comey stated that he did not want a backdoor method of surveillance and that "We want to use the front door, with clarity and transparency, and with clear guidance provided by law." He believes that special access is required in order to stop criminals such as "terrorists and child molesters". Many companies such as Apple would not give the U.S. access due to the policies Apple has in place on users' confidentiality.

It sounds like the U.S. government wants weaker encryption for the average citizen.

Speaking of sounding unfamiliar with college...

&gt; it's the only app that's multiplatform.

FYI, I use Signal on android and Windows

What's wrong with email? You get the same data in an electronically accessible format and you can always print it if needed.

Has anyone heard from Atlassian since this whole shit show started happening? They’re based out of Sydney and almost every company I’ve worked for has used Jira, at the very least. If you’re using something like Bamboo for your CI, that could pose an issue.

15 years professionally (2003), 12 years specializing in Ruby (2006), going back 25 years as a hobbyist (1993). Started with Basic and C, eventually moved into PHP, Perl, VB.NET &amp; C#. Working a lot with Go right now, but still love Ruby.

We aren't, any kids born recently are though.

That’s presumptuous. I’d assume people are upset that this fellow didn’t read the SO thread.

Heroes. All of them.

Why though?

Javascript the language is kinda cool

&gt;neofeudalist

I'm stealing this word.

Well no doubt it's different from the USA.

I owned and ran a tech business in the UK. I did find it annoying that applications ask for gender, ethnicity, and even age - stuff that would be illegal in the USA because people can use that information to discriminate.

Do you honestly think there isn't anyone in the UK who thinks like you that has managed to own and run a company?

From my perspective, it was incredibly *easy* to find companies with loads of old white men in leadership positions. I very much doubt that has changed in a few years. So I can understand why companies want to make sure people in high positions are there not just because tradition demands that old white men run things. So yeah, there is going to be focus on diversity for the near future. It will take time to figure out what the right balance is and why. So far what we have seen is that [companies with more women in leadership positions outperform companies that have fewer women](https://www.businessinsider.com/companies-with-women-in-leadership-roles-perform-better-2016-6). And now there are some studies attempting to debunk that. You're in the middle of a huge experiment. Take a few steps back and stop taking it so personally, pay attention to large scale studies, and enjoy the ride and what you'll learn. You're a scientist. You should love experiments that further our knowledge.

&amp;#x200B;

&amp;#x200B;

His open source project is a list of links to javasript articles.

You're preaching superiority of JITs - so you already initiated a discussion about language choices. Also, if you want to keep language choice out - stick to Java, and try to explain, how exactly such a perfectly fit for static analysis language would benefit from a JIT, if a sufficiently smart (I know, done it deliberately) AOT is available.
 
And it's not just hiccups - it's *inconsistent* performance and a huge memory overuse (which, in turn, lead to hiccups too). JIT is very much responsible for it.

&gt; There are plenty of modern languages that not only match Ada in safety on a lot of fronts, but also offer additional features that don't exist in Ada.

Name one that has more features (including all the same), is compiled, and has been used on actual real-world projects successfully. I'd love to know.

&gt;Which is why Ada is largely irrelevant today.

This statement is predicated on other languages having the same + more features. So I'll wait on your answer to the above.

WHY IS THE HEADLINE IN ALL CAPS?

I've spent some time with him discussing his work, he's the real deal, paranoia and all  (most likely deserved).

** Other reason being Windows is impossible to use for actual dev tools. Node JS is no different from Python, Perl, Java, or any other stuff you want to use as a developer.

You can only use it on windows after you have registered on a smartphone. You still need a smartphone.

The GUI is not CSV. Its a horrible hack

I am comfortable with about thirty languages, give or take. And I make a point of reading about new languages as often as I can.

It's part of our job to constantly re-evaluate what we know and whether new, better tools are available.

If you are happy with knowing one language, then you are bound to make mistakes and use that language in situations where it would not be appropriate.

Like I said earlier, I strongly encourage you to diversify your interests a bit.

Article:
&gt;he has not tested any of these disks

eBay:
&gt;Current bid: US $7,601.00

😨

It is ubiquitous, accessible, and, in the web domain, it is requisite. It is one of very few languages usable in a monoglot fashion, back-to-front (using node.js and MongoDB, say)--I can't think of any others, in fact.

None of that makes JS a *good* language, but it *does* mean that it has access to a huge potential user base and some strong incentives that few other languages can offer.

Yes, interviews should not take more than a day.

(Featured in issue #44 of [Kubelist](https://kubelist.com/issue/44))

Is this true for any command? For example `pwd`. If I put that in place of `pkg_config` it would spawn a process for `pwd`?

the way all encryption is designed makes this impossible- cracking the encryption once means you can crack it on any device or service that uses that encryption using the same algorithm.   

This whole bill is retarded and reflects a lack of understanding behind cryptography. That or it is a blatant attempt to break cryptography in the nation for some unstated purpose. I am of the opinion that Australia no longer wants to rely on 5 eyes as the US has shown it isn't a reliable ally.

Many nodejs project specially with new devs include way to many dependencies, this is because JS is a very minimal language (a good thing) and does not come with all and the sink. PHP on the other hand has lots of builtin stuff, and most of that code has not aged well, the api is usually messy and inconsistent, and sometimes just plain buggy and wrong (datetime class is a clusterfuck on epic scales). There is no vanilla PHP out there, its frameworks all the way down. Sometimes its even CMS systems built on theese frameworks. The framework provides lots of abstactions and makes requirements on dependencies not needed in the same scale as js.

As it is PHP (imho) today is way more abstract than any node project ive seen, the (usually new) dev who uses Laravel (or any other fw) in php is not really using core PHP but some big abstraction. Many times lots of code is unused and still part of the fw. This isthe flipside of the coin. You either just vanilla and add libraries as you go and deem neccessary, or you go all in with a monolith framework. In PHP the monoliths rule, and in JS the unixy way is more popular.

Yeah, I was way off on that one. I was probably thinking of megamorphic dispatch re Haswell.

You seem to think that the more features, the better language?

This is an extremely naïve view of language design, and Ada is often cited as an example where more is less because of that.

But if you want an example, there is another language that's often mentioned in the category of having too many features: Scala. And it's viewed as negatively as Ada for that reason.

C#, Swift, and Kotlin have gained their popularity and success because of the way they successfully turned down features that didn't carry their own weight, a lesson that Ada never learned and which led it to irrelevance.

No idiot, you use the GUI to tell SQL Server which CSV file to load.

this is a joke right? Fbook has been compromised since it was made. Don't trust Zuck. He has fucked over everyone that has ever gotten involved with fbook and the privacy revelations were just the icing on the cake. I'm certain that somewhere Eduardo is laughing his ass off and has been for the last year.

I think my managers will not be Happy with this!

I mean beyond a specialized JVM with a very low latency GC, real-time Java is an oxymoron.

How is this upvoted? Make does NOTHING that CMake does. They aren't even competing tools. CMake is a Makefile generator. 

If you meant to say autotools this makes more sense. It's still wrong because autotools fucking suck, but autotools is a Makefile generator the same way CMake is.

&gt; There'd be street samurai

be the change you wish to see in the world

Glad to hear the approach is intuitive enough that it seems like it should have already been the standard way to define infrastructure!  

MortiferaJ did a great job describing the switch in cloud infrastructure configuration/definition that's happening here – the industry has been using large, complex configuration files that are difficult to reuse/share/maintain and we are now seeing a switch to using full programming languages to define infrastructure.  It enables easier sharing/reuse/abstraction with the standard language package managers, a more powerful toolset for defining infrastructure, and an improved authoring experience (ex: free IDE support for content assist, code navigation, refactoring, in-line documentation, etc).  

[https://github.com/awslabs/aws-cdk](https://github.com/awslabs/aws-cdk)

That's a bingo!  

Is that how you say it?

I run a lot of technical interviews.  I doubt they stole your code.

More likely, they looked at the problems they're facing, found one they'd like to assign to the new hire and gave them the problem to see how they'd respond.

I often give applicants a task that my team has completed in the previous six months and then compare that to what our team came up with.

The team has more time to build a solution then the tech screen, so usually comes up with a more robust solution. 

Every once in awhile, a candidate will come up with something we didn't think of.  Those candidates pass the tech screen 90% of the time, which doesn't mean they're a proper cultural fit or salary expectations match the job.  

If they wanted to use your code, then you would have received a offer because your domain knowledge would have been very valuable.

Deep breath, my friend.  Either they didn't like the code, thought it wasnt a good cultural  fit, or the business situation changed.  Maybe they're looking for a junior person and thinking, "this person is going to design a higher salary than is in  budget".  Maybe the boss' boss changed and the job disappeared.  There's lots of reasons things can go sideways.  Maybe their hiring practices are junk.

I seriously doubt they're trying to trick job applicants into writing production code.

i very much doubt Signal would tolerate that. Likely would sue in US court where they would win under the more privacy friendly US laws. Furthermore, I don't think Apple/Google/Microsoft would comply with such an order- it would scare away both customers and programmers. Apple especially would not comply with such an order.

I'll have a look at it! Cheers.

without credibility signal is useless. If it doesn't encrypt then it might as well be messenger.

Yes. This is the difference between deferred and immediate variables. Please read the manual: https://www.gnu.org/software/make/manual/html_node/Flavors.html

I think people are a little too enamoured with the idea that all cryptographic communication is flawless. It's a dangerous assumption. One that has caused wars to be lost.

Hypothetically, if a flaw is discovered with key generation, but it requires a provider's master key to exploit, the provider will be obliged to provide the master key. Is this really such an unlikely scenario? Perhaps a little unlikely, of a similar level of implausibility of having an undiscovered bug in a popular ssh library for 4 years. 

Private citizens will only be vulnerable if the government thinks they're breaking the law. Now, I still think this is bad, because I believe people have the right to keep secrets from the government, but the law doesn't agree here.

You could also try adding diffuse reflection off walls to partially light areas around corners.

I DON'T SEE NO COMMA THERE!

The thing is, 99% of the time you don't need to generate Makefiles. Both autotools and cmake add boatloads of complexity that nobody understands, while not actually fixing any of Make's issues, since they both still use Make. And you don't need to be generating anything. Just learn how to write Makefiles and you're done. Read the manual: https://www.gnu.org/software/make/manual/html_node/index.html

It's true that fascism never really disappeared, but at least in the 50s and 60s labour movements were strong enough to prevent fascist ideologies from taking hold among the working class.

Since the 70s onwards, however, neoliberalism has come in and washed away almost all social and labour protections, creating a well of anger among the working and middle classes and allowing the fascists to manipulate and direct this anger for their own benefit.

The hero we need but dont deserve.

That's one pretty awesome library name tbh.

And the hack was for about 50k printers. I think this list might be who was hacked.

Good!

Don't become a patsy for this criminal mafia that is currently posing as "government" in Australia.

People better be keeping their forks up to date with upstream as well, so if anything happens to the official copy, it is backed up in lots of places outside Australia.

It was a joke. He didnt think they would actually do it, and they weren't kids either. People just take things out of context.

yea, but they aren't going to get it. The opposition is strong here and our politicians just recently saw what happened to facebook when it was discovered that they were systemically not respecting privacy. That's not to mention the uproar following the disclosure of how poorly the NSA respected privacy. They also know that Net Neutrality is being pushed at the state level to counter the lack of it at the federal level and that it is possible that states could overrule Congress in this encryption matter- telecommunications security for intra-state corporations and businesses is a power not specifically relegated to the Federal level (although interstate telecommunications likely would fall into federal jurisdiction). Furthermore they have seen what happens when bills like SOPA and CISPA come around- the internet shuts down. So it not only won't happen here, it has been tried and failed.

I know it's too much to ask for on Reddit, but did you try clicking on the link?

I think this mafia posing as "government" knows that it will not work. Makes you wonder even more why they deliberately attempt to go through this illegal route.

The study is actually excellent, uses regression analysis to eliminate other factors, and it is extremely wide scale covering more ground than most studies - pretty much every business in the UK must provide data. You haven't rebutted any of my latest points. If it's so easy to do in a few seconds why not do it here, and also contact the authors of the  paper along with the media and make a name for yourself?

Thank you!

That’s not a punchline. That’s an explanation of coding.

Never played Video game but Mario is a great in the Nintendo

&gt;no information what it does

It shares configs across devices

[Found it](https://twitter.com/sarahmei/status/1073234104311734273)

Right, so everything you've described there shows it's main place in programming: the creation of new languages. Both your points about what category theory can tell us has implications for the design of programming languages, but these particular details are not necessary for the users of the language - it is a different matter if the user is interested in which case by all means study it, but these details won't make anyone a better programmer in their day to day life, which is the point I would like to make.

&gt; Its sad that these governments seem to be following the Trumpian model.

It is not a "government" - this is a mafia in Australia right now.

Trump is an oligarch and a trash-tweeting troll but I am unaware of similar mafia
laws in the USA as of late. Then again everything goes in closed source code.

I felt similarly at first.  Aside from the occasional analogy between fields, as well as uniform methods for working with quotient and free constructions, why should anybody care?

&amp;#x200B;

Baez had a course in Category theory which made me realize there is more to the subject: [www.azimuthproject.org/azimuth/show/Applied+Category+Theory](https://www.azimuthproject.org/azimuth/show/Applied+Category+Theory)

&amp;#x200B;

While the focus in that course wasn't on programming perse, Baez showed that category theory provides a framework for studying resource theories. For example: what's the resource tree for making a pie? Said tree becomes a structural framework for understanding the actual recipe, the analogy to software isn't hard to see.

&amp;#x200B;

You can generate particular categories very quickly with simple graphs, and you can study these things as concrete objects with properties. Concrete categories(all the categories you mentioned in your list) are obviously important, but they aren't the only star in the show.

&amp;#x200B;

For most subjects, they go through a period of "This is useful because it helps me with x" before they become "This is useful in and of itself", if you still feel like category theory is only useful in terms of its applications, then that's evidence that you don't really understand the heart of the subject yet, imo.

&amp;#x200B;

Which is totally fine.

&amp;#x200B;

It is kind of a pain how difficult it is to understand Category Theory though. I'm not convinced its going to become a programming lingua franca because its hard.

It's not a dystopia - it happens RIGHT BEFORE YOUR EYES AS IS.

A large part of the protests in France is attempting to change a lot of the system. That is why the protests continue despite Macron offering bribe-money to the demonstrators.

Nope. Rates of depression among Millennial men don't come anywhere near the rates for women. Also, you should know better than to make such an ignorant comparison. Men and women cannot be directly compared in that manner. They have different biological drives.

They could create a national firewall and block Signal's addresses.  We already saw how poorly such a firewalling act went in Russia with Telegram though, so that is probably not likely.

Based on comments on the other thread you want to research gaming laptops. Not the other way around. You can program on a cheap 250 laptop but you can’t game on it. 

https://www.pcgamer.com/best-gaming-laptop/

You can just use a VPN on your phone to get the up to date version of the app.  But yes anything that increases the barriers to using the app will decrease adoption.

What's redpill?

We are not that far away from it. Doping happens as is. Man-machine interfaces get better at the least from one decade to the other.

Wait a bit longer and you'll see it happen, excluding the dystopia part though - that part never made that much sense to begin with, it only makes for a better storyline (e. g. in the original Blade Runner, not the cgi-washed up joke they claim is a sequel).

My point is that it doesnt support actually proper CSV. It doesnt support quoted columns, or columns with commas within them

the solution i see for shitty governments putting their hands where they don't belong is to make the resource FREE and available to everyone, eg, open source without licensing.

and with servers, a dead man switch in a sense, eg, an insignificant notification that acts like a message to say "we're compromised now but we cant actually say anything".

you're receiving downvotes because precious white males don't like being told they can't say *the thing* when they just wanna say *the thing*, man!

Fascism existed for a very long time, even before the two world wars.

Mussolini called it corporatism but at the end of the day it always comes down to who owns most of the wealth and who does not.

Indirect democracy is the illusion of the people having the control when in fact they don't.

Web Printing: How to Fax in Disguise

Given that you don't know "who put that name up" how do you know "it's for this very paper" ?

It does if you use SSIS, or the GUI, or PowerShell. Or if you really need it to be in T-SQL, spend five minutes writing an extension in C#.

Although that makes me wonder how the law applies to Australian expatriates. Can the AU government approach a citizen working in Silicon Valley and force them to comply with threats of extradition or arrest when they return for the holidays?

Dunno, the explanation sounds pretty funny for me.

It is actually even older than that, before the two world wars. But I agree that the two world wars (re)labelled the definition and extended on it.

All the millions that were killed as cannon fodder in the two world wars had a legacy of others before them who were sent to go to war - and some people profited from war, which I think should not be possible in any good society.

Trying to print from my phone is a giant PITA. Anything that would make it easier might be preferable to a few unsolicited ads popping out like an old fax machine.

https://archive.org/details/2002_Junk_Faxes_Collection

They could push a compromised update to a particular user via Google/Apple store which first reads the user's keys and sends them to the government, then proceeds with the regular app functions as the user would expect.  It would be difficult to pick up on this unless the user is manually verifying the signatures of all installed app files.

Here's a an example:

In linear algebra, do you specify how a linear map behaves on sums every time, or do you specify it on a basis, and 'extend by linearity'? When you extend by linearity, you're taking advantage of the fact that there's a pointed functor from Set to k-Vect, which lets you just define the set function on your basis and then extend it into a linear map.

Similarly, it's a lot easier to reason about something like determinants by observing that it's really just the linear map passed though a sequence of universally defined extension and quotient procedures (through the tensor algebra and into the exterior algebra, and finally by evaluating at the top form).

The same idea can be applied in programming. Higher order functions like `map` let you factor a function into a simple one defined on a simpler type which is mapped functorially (i.e. in a well-structured way) into an extended function on a related type. Structuring programs in this way is useful because it deemphasizes the extension, signaling to other programmers they don't need to waste focus thinking about it since it's done in "the standard way". Functors compose, so once you understand this, you become comfortable with doing `map(map(map(map(f))))` etc. as needed to get the correct type. You don't need to worry about "what that does" because it's obvious within the context (and, if your particular composition of functors comes up a lot, you can give it a name and define `map(f) = map(map(map(map(f))))` and know that your definition makes sense).

No. WWII just made it more dramatic in many ways but it already happened in WWI and before.

Have a look at the old book from Smedley https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/War_Is_a_Racket and you can see a lot of details how some profited from the war while others fought and died.

It's like 2002 all over again!

https://archive.org/details/2002_Junk_Faxes_Collection

Unique encryption for every user /s

Because phil is a piece of shit

An iPod Touch will also work, you can set it up using a feature phone that can receive text messages. It's disappointing the desktop application doesn't function the same way.

Stop lying about the UK you worthless subhuman filth. Even better, stop existing.

I just do. Ask somebody else where "Waterfall " came from, don't believe me.

Or, you know, google?

[Winston Walker Royce (August 15, 1929 – June 7, 1995) was an American computer scientist, director at Lockheed Software Technology Center in Austin, Texas. He was a pioneer in the field of software development, known for his 1970 paper from which the Waterfall model for software development was mistakenly drawn.](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Winston_W._Royce)

PJL stands for Printer Job Language, most (for arbitrary definition of most) PostScript printers support it.

Being able to query their status definitely means they're accessible on the open Internet in at least some form.

These are just "fine-tuning" means of the Australian mafia posing as government to exert pressure on software companies to steal data and transfer it to this mafia.

A real government, by the way, has almost no real use for any of this stolen data - so it is blatantly obvious that this is mass spying on a new level that this criminal mafia is doing.

What australian journalists should do is to entangle the web of corruption that has to be happening at the same time, since that would explain why this joke of a "law" would make it come into effect.

Ah, an unemployable retarded piece of shit is blaming HRs and "diversity" for all his faults. How typical. It's so satisfying when scum like you suffer!

I think it is too late already.

People won't be using software-from-Australia since the state actors are a mafia.

You need to up your game if you're going to write 'tutorials'. Problems with your code:

* `turns` and `i`. They are both tracking the same value so there's no good reason to have both.
* Inconsistent structuring. The "you win" case is handled outside the loop while the "you lose" case in handled inside the loop.
* Poor indentation. The `if` block in the middle of your `while` loop is not indented correctly.

1 in 200 developers are blind? I seriously doubt the reliability of that stat.

The first time I set up printing from my phone, I destroyed a forest while on the throne.

"This is cool, I need to remember to print this. Oh wait, I can just hit this and start a 100-page print job while on the shitter."

There's no going back from that experience, everyone's going to want that after they've used it even once.

&gt; You seem to think that the more features, the better language?

I thought you were implying that. Sorry if I misunderstood.

No I don't think so.

But why else use a different language from Ada, which is already highly orthogonal and stable? I can't only think that it is because some other language has some killer feature that Ada doesn't have, while also not requiring one to give-up on all of Ada's features. Ergo, it should have Ada's features and then some.

&gt; a lesson that Ada never learned and which led it to irrelevance.

You didn't do your homework here. Ada has resisted bloat far more assertively than the languages you mentioned. The ARG spends almost every day discussing the merits and details of proposed changes. So Ada not only "learned this lesson", it is the first language to even try.

Anyone else just getting a login screen?

&gt; This whole bill is retarded 

The more important question is - why is this australian "government" really doing it?

The explanation they have given aka anti-terror and anti-pornography are evidently a lie.

Yes, I write and post all my snail-mail letters using modified utf-7

Well, mingw-w64 is still a descendant of cygwin

There is a reason why Facebook's real name is called CIAbook.

"Use it or lose it." When UTF-8 is ubiquitous (fortunately), support for other encodings rots due to lack of real world testing.

You should care because types are fundamental; you need an offset &amp; size into your memory.  It's all about how you get there.  The more types are expressed, the better/faster the machine code will be.   The more implicit you are, the more tricks/trade-offs have to take place.  But it's not a linear scale, some of the inferred type systems and JITers are fairly impressive.  At the end of the day, pick the language best suited to the job.  

Types also help catch errors at compile time which is nice.  But if you're writing C, it's not really a guarantee since you can cast anything to anything else :D.

Edit:  I guess something like Brainfuck can get by without types and be fast.  But it's not really a language you want to hand code :D

Aha, thank you.

Normally access to a market means that you must obide to the law - otherwise you can not operate there.

That is why Google is scared of the EU chopping it into little pieces if it continues to refuse obeying the laws in the EU.

Again, proof of concept, experimentation. It shouldn't take building the whole system to verify performance claims. If it doesn't work the only thing lost is the research time.

If they add a backdoor then they are instantly dead.

Where is the link to the GitHub for the code?

I do the same. And what I consistently find is that a huge amount of time is being wasted building tools for building things but not building things. 

I really suggest you stop wasting so much time learning redundant inventions, and spend more time doing useful things. If you are not that kind of person, well I am, so please don't waste time giving me suggestions that are not relevant to the world I'm in.

Doesn't windows use utf-16?  And java utf-32?

Signal could probably sue them since that is probably not part of a contract.

Would you spend 20 hours on each of let's say 10 companies who were looking to hire you if you now got fired?

&gt; I don't think so

I think so. Lots of people did not vote for this mafia, so why should they be subject to what this mafia does?

48% in the USA did not take part in the presidential election so why should they be subject to someone who dictates the law onto them? Sure, more than 50% would be better, but you get the point.

There is no real credibility for these tyrants.

Take the protests in France. Many voted for Macron only to avoid Le Pen but they don't like Macron, so there vote was not a real vote. That is why these protests caught so many different people - they have no interest in maintaining the current system that keeps them as slaves and steals the little money they have left.

Internally (at least Java). For I/O I'm sure they all handle utf8

Crypto and code is hard.

Even when things are in plain sight, it takes a tremendous amount of skill and effort to discover weaknesses in cryptographic libraries. Typically, these companies will hire a third-party to audit their code at certain intervals, and they almost always find *something* that could be exploited (and has been exploitable for months/years). There's a multitude of examples for this, including for OpenSSL, Truecrypt and PGP (technically in the clients using PGP). Debian Linux also had a really shitty randomness source for their PRNG, which had been in their code for nearly 2 years.

Putting in a backdoor or weakening the crypto can happen in plain sight and noone will notice, unless the commit message clearly states the actual purpose.

All women regardless of generation are more likely than men to experience depression during their lifetime. Across all generations. Nothing special about millennial women. Meanwhile, depression among ALL millenials is way up compared to prior generations. More to do with how they were raised and being born into an increasingly stressful world.

The idea that the past was some kind of magical moment for women where they lovingly stayed at home raising children and were content is laughable. Depression, suicide, substance abuse, and alcoholism were rampant. There are loads of books and songs and movies about it. The Stepford Wives movie and the Rolling Stones Mother's Little Helper both come instantly to mind.

Your point seems even more absurd when you factor in one of the primary reasons more women are depressed than men: **postpartum mood changes can range from transient "blues" immediately  following childbirth to an episode of major depression and even to  severe, incapacitating, psychotic depression.**

You could be better if you look at your own code with completely new eyes. There's a blindness that comes with memory, paradoxically.

One approach to solving problems is by creating DSLs that describe the business domain, and then using that to implement business logic. Understanding the structure of languages is therefore useful for day-to-day programming as well.

Even ignoring that, I've seen people complain about e.g. the lack of explicitness in how association works in do notation, when the point is the theory says that any choices that exist give the same result, so there's no need to be concerned with that as a programmer. Understanding that would free up mental energy for those people.

Another way of thinking about it is that, to me, acknowledging that these abstractions are useful in language design but saying programmers don't need to know about them is like saying OOP design patterns are useful for framework design, but programmers don't need to know about them. Recognizing how a language is designed makes it easier to use that language.

&gt; what is it with Australia and the EU passing these stupid laws that reflect a
&gt; very poor knowledge of the history and current state of online culture?

It's corruption.

Lobbyists are in power making laws that were designed by parts of the industry.

It is evident if you look at the goal behind this - mass surveillance made simpler.

I do not think you can trust any of these "governments" - they are just shells for private interests.

Yea sure, when I need to support multiple platforms I'll just literally write all the hundreds of lines of logic in Makefile instead of the one loc necessary for cmake. Sounds great. Thanks for the advice.

That shows GitHub becoming desperate.

This is a tutorial.

They use UCS2 in their APIs, but that has little bearing on what browsers themselves do.

The Us Govt relies heavily on it. There’s no way they will use it after this. Even if they self host it’s a risk they will not take.

&gt;Seriously, projector-included popup books? Do you really think that's going to make a lot of money?

Apparently, Google did? I don't disagree, though. Seems an odd thing for them to be involved in.

Losing core developers is a big blow for any software project, open-source or not.

Are you fucking serious? You're flopnaxing the ropjar in 2018? You're everything that's wrong with programming. I have another almost identical method of doing that, which is far superior, because that's what I learned first.

How is that a project?

If I create lots of links, can I call this a project too and will github nominate this for a super award?

By the way, how much of the money that github got, do they re-invest into such projects? This is actually something I would support - while I think the project by leonardomso is not worthy to be called a great software project as such, despite the effort - I do happen to think that he should get money from GitHub because of that.

But they are too greedy.

Have a look at this site (not mine) that has great example of the effect you are trying to achieve. https://www.redblobgames.com/articles/visibility/

I think maybe the reason you are getting downvoted could be because you are under selling how difficult encryption is to design. The maths of encryption is very very complex.

Came here to say I think restic is inspiring for the inherent, file system level parallel write support. I just wish I had a use case for it.

&gt;I don't believe corporations are people and thus the first amendment shouldn't apply to them.

The first amendment isnt just about speech of individuals. It's also about freedom of press, which was even done by corporations at the writing of the constitution. 

Requiring a balanced approach could easily backfire. If someone runs a piece on climate change, are they required to give time to climate change deniers? If so, /r/enlightenedcentrism would like to have a word.

Came here to say I think restic is inspiring for the inherent, file system level parallel write support. I just wish I had a use case for it.

And something else nobody needs.

What happened to Red Hat?

They used to be cool - many years ago.

Like GSM7.

&gt; What Telegram did in order to be secure is that they chopped up the keys and store a part of each key in a different jurisdiction. 

That's odd, Signal doesn't store the keys at all, as far as I know (other than on your own phone, of course).

&gt; Registering that your service is available outside of your network is downright stupid.

This is not about *you* registering services with upnp. It's about routers/nat with vulnerable upnp implementations.

&gt; The games were successful back in the days.

Sure, but they were terrible. Even compared to the rest of the Sierra line!

&gt; I really suggest you stop wasting so much time learning redundant inventions,

You don't know anything about what I learn.

And personally, I find the concept of constantly learning new things exhilarating.

Your obsession at seeing Ada as the single solution to all software engineering problems should be cause for pause, not celebration.

All you proved is that you're a creep ass and not even good at it.

Read my /u/ backwards and you'll figure out it's a throwaway. Good job faggot lol

Look at the source provided for your quoted "from which the Waterfall model for software development was mistakenly drawn" in that Wikipedia article. 

It's the same 1970 paper that you've already agreed *does not mention* "waterfall". 

You really don't know.

&gt; the latencies are more like 13ns, not 5ns or 5.7ns like you said

Ooh, right. Because it's *double* data rate and uses both edges of the clock, those all need to be doubled. So 10ns or 11.4ns for the small numbers, and 23.2 for the big one.

Wikipedia's clock-relative CAS numbers *are* a little higher than sticks on the market now, explaining why they said 13 instead of 10.

&gt; The funny part here is that the page table entries are stored in RAM

Fortunately in physical RAM not virtual RAM, or we'd never get anywhere ...

&gt; add up to about 40ns

Hmm ... we can add 1ns for the time it takes electricity to move 8 inches in copper.

Maybe L3 cache eviction hurts that much? Assuming 2 sticks (and 2 channels) like most end-user systems use, there's a 50% chance of requiring a write to the same DIMM (not sure how the "4 sticks but still only 2 memory channels" case works). I'm not sure how overlappable that is, since RAM commands are pipelined these days.

&gt; can I get a big "fuck you" to this encryption law?

Yes.

Let me guess.​ 5 1⁄4-inch floppy disks?

Erm... that changes anything, you think? I do not.

What useful point are you trying to make?

That I don't know the minutiae?

Sure, you've won.

Happy?

Could they seek asylum at that point?

Still waiting for a script kiddie to [make an ATM tell me I’m an asshole](https://m.imgur.com/gallery/tJ3SvmQ)

&gt;With your reasoning, Brainfuck is a robust language that everybody should use because it's never caused any disasters.

This is a major logical fallacy. Ada is, has been, and will be used in many more real applications, many of which are very complex, and very long-lived. So no, you cannot equate this reasoning at all. Ada has been proven, Brainfuck most definitely as not been. Furthermore, I am highly skeptical that anyone would expect Brainfuck to be less error-prone than Ada. In fact, I'd be willing to bet that you could make a court case that using Brainfuck over Ada in a safety-critical system would be evidence for manslaughter.

&gt; Nice try ultra normie

&gt; ultra normie

Ironically unironically using the word normie is the most normie thing possible

No. Writing software is many orders of magnitude more difficult than setting up a VPN. Writing your own encryption is much harder than general-purpose software, so much so that the conventional wisdom is that you shouldn't even think about it unless you have a PhD in the relevant math, and even then you should only do it if you have a really pressing need.

&gt; Lmao you sound like you're 12

And you don't?

Telegram doesn't turn on end-to-end encryption by default.

This is probably the greatest criticism they are facing from security people. 

 If you choose to have an end-to-end encryption chat (Called a 'secret chat' in Telegram)  then of course they don't store keys.

you just fucked me up

But is this necessary? Is being more indirect/implicit a good thing? Is it an necessarily useful thing? I find it frustrating how much talent, energy, and time is wasted inventing yet another language that is yet another solution in search of a problem.

I think the art is to actually make a painting with a reliable, familiar brush, instead of always making brushes and never having time to paint.

Conal's FRP wouldn't be implicit at all, but it's quite abstract. In Conal's model you have functions that are continuous respective to time variable, then you use suitable operators to build larger functions out of them.

For example, you could have a function that takes in two moving points and returns a point in middle between these two points. It would be described by the following type:

`(Behavior Point ∧ Behavior Point) -&gt; Behavior Point`

What this type specifically describes would be a moving point that is dependent to two separate occurrences of moving points.

Likewise this model describes events as sequences of occurrences of some type. It allows you to describe events that never happen, and events that occur at specific time after some other event, and combination of these. But you can't conjure events up from your ass. A continuous function depending on events, say.. mouse clicking or motions, would be forced to have the type:

`Event Mouse -&gt; Behavior Point`

This type would describe a moving point that is dependent to some mouse events.

Conal's FRP model doesn't describe how to evaluate these or how to track state involved in evaluating behaviors. Also doesn't describe how the behaviors are introduced or eliminated inside the program. The point is that those details do not leak to the user of this system in the first place.

Unfortunately when you seemingly leave something out, there is someone out there who fills in the blanks, tries to be practical with it, and mutilates the whole idea such that it becomes the same thing that you already had and that did not work. This is how we got to the Reactive javascript from Conal's presentations.

Penn Jillette has a daughter called Moxie!

That's why you have a print server.

&gt; Sublime, VIM, Notepad++, etc. can do it because they lack hundreds of features that VSCode has.

I've always assumed that they can pull it off because they've been written in C or C++, instead of Electron. There's something to that, of course. Especially vim is very capable and can do everything that VSCode can do and much more, but that's another story.

&gt; if you are using VScode just to take a quick look to a JSON or any other source file, well, that might be your problem

Yeah, basically. I like VSCode enough that I'd want to use it for anything and have an uniform text/code editing experience. But quickly entering a git commit message, although VSCode does it wonderfully, or checking a JSON/log/text file takes a 1-2 seconds unfortunately. It'd be great if it didn't, but I guess it's too much to ask for.

Or maybe it's not about making money, it's about not getting sued by a person like this (who clearly has no issue telling a limited one-sided version of events). If they did steal this guy's idea, then they deserve to be sued, but I don't really see strong evidence of that in this article.

I wish I could add two classes to the high school curriculum. Personal Finance and Technology Foundations.

  

Personal Finance would be all about how to get a job, open bank accounts, how taxes work, writing checks, etx.

  

Technology Foundations would, at a high level, go over how thing like how the internet works. How search engine functions, how a computer works. What happens when I call someone, the power grid etc.

Because when I encode the undecidable problem into the program it can still generate value while it's running, but a compiler only generates value when it finishes.

Ability != Authority

&gt; Here I am running an honest youtube channel, and PewDiePie not only gets hackers trying to get him subs, but also big news stories about those hackers. 

Never thought I'd see Brett Keane on reddit

Her full name is Moxie CrimeFighter Jillette!

&gt; They use UCS2 in their APIs, but that has little bearing on what browsers themselves do.

I agree with the second part of the sentence, but that first part needs some clarification: Windows APIs have functions that take UCS2, UTF16 or wchar_t (none take UTF8).

Windows also has an insane TCHAR type that can be either unicode-compatible  or not depending on compile-time flags. IOW, programs written using TCHAR can come out unicode-compatible or unicode-incompatible just by including the wrong header or changing a compilation flag.

There are far more platforms supporting C(and maybe even C++) and Java than platforms supporting browsers or node. Browsers only exist on the desktop and mobile and node is limited to the major OSes. C is considered to be the "portable" assembly and it's available on devices where no other language exists. Java is used even for things like credit card and printer(internal) programming.

Lol I wish I added a satire tag

This reminds me a lot of Monaco. Might be worth comparing what you do to what he did.

https://www.facebook.com/notes/monaco/line-of-sight-in-a-tile-based-world/411301481995/

&gt; Your obsession at seeing Ada as the single solution to all software engineering problems should be cause for pause, not celebration.

I think we need to spend more time building applications, and less time building tools. Ada is a superb tool, a proven tool, an most-purpose tool. I believe it should be used instead of C, C++, Java, Python, Rust, Go, PHP, etc. I'm not going to change my mind, you can bet on that.

After coding for 8 hours a day for 5 days, I don’t really want to be programming anymore.

I think as an industry we should be advocating people use their free time to enjoy time with love ones and improve soft skills and just pursue hobbies outside of development.

Failing this I think we’ll end up making our own lives only revolve around programming which would be dreadful.

Yes.  It applies to Australian citizens.

Just had a quick skim, looks very interesting - good reading material for later. Thanks!

If you are changing the algorithm without a good commit message explaining it in full detail, your commit isn't getting merged.

Good grief...

I think there's an npm package for that.. aww shit there goes my bitcoin wallet.

I am not sure I understand your comment. Could you clarify?

&gt; syndicalism that operates on the principle that businesses represent the interests of their workers.

Not technically correct, state syndicalism and corporativism means that business _plus worker unions_ get to decide how work relations would happen, those are the corporations, and all of that would be under strict government control. 

Union membership either being compulsory, or powerful unions lobying and dictating policy is all part of the same issue. That and overarching businesses are two sides of the same coin.

An old man once showed me his 8 inch floppy.  
\*edit\* Lol 8 inch was real too

Some knowledgeable people in this sub could fill in some programming details that were kept in the background in the article. That's why I clicked in here anyway... Sorry I'm just a spectator.

&gt; Windows APIs have functions that take UCS2, UTF16 or wchar_t (none take UTF8)

Windows API's take UTF-8 but it's currently behind a user beta switch.

Lol. Yes.

Nah my soyboi

Would it really apply to them when OWS isn't an Australian organization?

I'm aware of what the legislation says, but when it refers to individuals, it seems —to me— to be referring to solo developers, not people working anywhere in the world who happen to be Australian.

Like how do people propose that Australia would punish Signal developers? Banning them from entering the country? Arresting them on entering the country? Arresting any developers who have worked on the project from Australia? Doesn't really seem plausible to me.

Lol go back to tumblr with that shit mate.

You disagree? 'Applied statistics' and 'machine learning' are synonymous? 'The cloud' and 'a computer in an arbitrary place'?

That's not even the main point, either. Marketing latched on to those terms in particular for various reasons, sure. And some others. Agile's a good one. But originally those terms all meant something. They weren't chosen for marketing as stated, they were chosen to name specific things (even Agile) and co-opted and abused for marketing later. We aren't muddying waters by giving specific names to nebulous concepts, the people doing the marketing are by making them more nebulous than they necessarily are.

I'll admit there are some exceptions (the weird habit of giving vulnerabilities sexy names comes to mind, but in a weird way I'm okay with that, people listen when you start talking about Heartbleed, but their eyes glaze over when you talk about CVE-2014-0160, and we wanted a lot of people talking about Heartbleed quickly) but they're the exceptions, not the rule. In general, this article is trying to make us as a group/culture entirely responsible for a problem that isn't our fault, and to some extent can't be solved at all.

It's not wise to make assumptions until you're well clear of an old standard, approach

&gt;If we are going to pad the input as the RFC suggests so that we never use =, we may have to pad up to two bytes of input with zeros. That would form a valid UTF-16 NULL!

I think the author is misreading the RFC. It says to pad the input with zero bits until it reaches a base64 character boundary, prior to doing the base64 encoding. This always requires adding either four bits, two bits, or no bits. Never two bytes.

Here are the three length conditions:

1. The input is a multiple of 3 bytes. The base64 encoding will be a perfect multiple of 4 bytes, and no padding is needed.
2. The input is one greater than a multiple of 3 bytes. The last byte will encode to one base64 character and have two bits of unencoded data remaining. Append four bits of padding to the input to complete the final base64 character.
3. The input is two greater than a multiple of 3 bytes. The last two bytes will encode to two base64 characters and have four bits of unencoded data remaining from the last byte of input. Append two bits of padding to the input to complete the final base64 character.

For a fully-contained base64 string, the "=" bytes are always unnecessary. It's always unambiguous what the string decodes to without those bytes. There are two reasons that padding bytes exist at all: They make it possible to concatenate two separate base64 encodings without having to reencode the second part to align properly, and it ensures that the output is a multiple of 4 bytes (which, in theory, allows certain performance optimizations, if you can count on the padding bytes being there).

&gt;The first amendment isnt just about speech of individuals. It's also about freedom of press, which was even done by corporations at the writing of the constitution.

There's a difference between saying a group of the press that is organized as a corporation should have free speech because they're part of the press, and saying that because some of the press is organized as corporations, therefore, all corporations should have free speech. I can understand the former but not the latter.

&gt;Requiring a balanced approach could easily backfire. If someone runs a piece on climate change, are they required to give time to climate change deniers? If so, [/r/enlightenedcentrism](https://www.reddit.com/r/enlightenedcentrism) would like to have a word.

No solution to a real-world problem is perfect, with no downsides. I would rather allow those who are clearly wrong to have a voice in a debate than to allow for unaccountable private corporations, with their own private interests, dictate what is said about a particular topic.

This is the sort of article that I almost compulsively want to downvote.  Not because it is badly written, or it isn't interesting.  It's a great post with good content, etc.  Just because the topic being written about is such an Eldritch horror that I automatically recoil in terror and lose two sanity points after seeing it.

&gt; employers there could legally require your fingerprint as a condition of work

FWIW I've never heard of any employer in Australia requiring that.

I feel like Python is crossing into vegan territory, where everyone just shamelessly announces they've written something, "... in Python."

From electrons, to opcodes, to assembly, to C, to Python. Each is a layer of abstraction (though I'll admit, there is an argument that opcode to assembly is not since it is 1 to 1).

npm install security-js correctness-js performance-js expressivity-js --save

Finally, JS is usable!

You mean "it's why THEY should have a print server."

"And well just go ahead and `npm audit`... mother of GOD!"

It would be pretty much unenforceable for him to agree to grant them rights to his "homework."  Even if he signed something, the court would ask what he got in exchange, which was nothing, and conclude that the company can't just demand stuff for free.

If anything, the company would wind up in trouble for unpaid labor (and unpaid payroll taxes.)  As a worker, you may not find the state as strongly on your side as you would like sometimes, but they do f$&amp;%ing love payroll taxes, so the state always wants to make sure workers get paid.

I used to think that too, but I find the way he treated requests for a non play store release, the lack of federation, and the lack of a canary to be extremely suspicious. He's been cleverly avoiding questions about federating signal, getting it approved and uploaded to fdroid, and there's literally no logical reason for any of this if he genuinely cares about privacy. IMHO Any non-federated messaging system is doomed to fail or fall into corrupt hands. A good messaging system doesn't require trust in some centralized third party company or organization.

This blog post by sircmpwn sums it all up nicely. https://drewdevault.com/2018/08/08/Signal.html  

EDIT: It's worth noting that I do still have a lot of respect for Moxie. Especially with this news of him standing up to the Australian government. I don't trust him though. I shouldn't need to.

Don't believe this! It's not posted on Medium with some huge unrelated image at the top.

I'd say that virtual machine and emulator are pretty close to synonymous, as long as you don't define them in terms of specific implementations, but rather what they try to accomplish.

Looks neat. Is your game open source?

I agree with Bob on this one.
The infiltration of social justice totalitarianism into the developer community is cancer.

His blog really isn’t a straw man. At no point does he mention “progressives”.

You have just (either purposely or by accident) conflated social justice totalitarianism with progressivism. 

It’s an easy mistake to make, because “progressive” is one of the buzzwords they like to hide behind.

Nice. I wasn't aware of this.

What you're talking about could be fixed by changing the election system.

Look up 'ranked choice voting'. That's literally all it would take to fix a ton of problems.

"Hey honey, would ya come over here Sugar Buns... This machine just called me an asshole..."

These laws were pushed through by our current Home Affairs minister, who is an ex-cop/militant potato. He outright said recently that he sees parliament as a hindrance to the government.

The reason that the opposition allowed the law to pass is:

There will be a general election next year, but the current government have scheduled only a handful of sitting days before the election. As soon as there was resistance from the opposition, they started screaming how the opposition was "siding with terrorists and paedophiles" by not passing the law. The opposition decided that they couldn't politically allow the current government to have this line of attack until the next sitting day. Which is in February.

Basically it was "cave in now, or have 2-3 months of us telling the population that you support terrorists and paedophiles before the election."

Welcome to politics.

I imagine you do indeed learn a lot about how people behave.  But if you still have that policy, maybe you aren't learning as much as you could?

In particular, I would imagine you learn that a lot of good developers would rather work for companies that don't require them to do a ton of work for free, and the only ones who have 20+ hours of prep time available for a single job interview are the people who don't have many companies trying to recruit them.  If you have recent emails from a half dozen recruiters, it's clearly a rational choice to spend 20 minutes responding to all of them, rather than 20 hours dealing with one company.

Unless the company is genuinely extraordinary and the pay is absurd, I would honestly encourage you to reconsider the way you do recruiting.  Being easy for good people to work for is always a good thing.

I think the crucial detail is "language" vs "language runtime". There can be multiple runtime implementations for the same language. For JavaScript, for example, there are some implementations that interpret and some that compile.

He makes Nazi jokes

Better Performance:  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Threaded_code

- specifically: direct threaded code, or subroutine threaded code (which allows a lot of optimizations like easy inlining and use of native branch instructions)

Even Better Performance: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dynamic_recompilation

I wasn't either until a few days ago. It has to be enabled by the user in Control Panel-&gt;Region-&gt;Administrative-&gt;Change System Locale. There should be a checkbox that says "Beta: Use Unicode UTF-8 for worldwide language support"

As I understand it this would make ANSI functions, for example `MessageBoxA` understand UTF-8.

&gt; Nope. You cannot statically compile Javascript.

Sure we can. Everything we do in JavaScript could be translated to, for example, C++. See https://github.com/Jeff-Mott-OR/javascript-cpp-rosetta-stone

It took me a bit to notice at first, but those are the shadows.

Yeah but this one's a video of a whiteboard. I'm a sucker for those.

I'm a learning noob, can you explain?

In particular, real shadows have what's called a "[Penumbra](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Umbra,_penumbra_and_antumbra)," because real light sources are not usually perfect point sources. You can either try to model that accurately (for example by modeling your light source as a cluster of point lights) or you could just try and blur the edges of the shadow to simulate this. [Example.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monaco:_What%27s_Yours_Is_Mine#/media/File:Monaco_What%27s_Yours_Is_Mine_-_Screenshot_4_(Casino_Heist\).png)

Languages tend to have terrible support for names, and I'd say that's a contributing factor in the overreach of types.

They start out quite simple, and get more complicated/complex/advanced as they go.

Just start with them, and continue as long as you enjoy them, or find your time investment reasonable. :)

Honestly, if a platform chooses not to comply, what can really be done? They can block the platform inside the country. So what? If people want to continue to use it they will find a way. If I were head of a team that developed secure tools and some country or other told me I had to break my product, I would tell them to eat shit, they can enforce their laws on their people in their country. If they tried to compel me to enforce it for them I would tell them the same thing. If they wanted to charge me with something I would just not go there.

That law essentially bans signal. Signal is supposed to not be signal anymore now just to comply? No, the Australian government can ban the product. That's all they can do.

Look at matrix.org/riot.im. Those are open source projects (GPL v3 I believe), they build a framework for encrypted communication for individuals, teams, groups, including voice, video and chat. They aren't a for profit entity, it is open source so it can be forked, you can never put a backdoor in something like that because it will be forked. You can never compel anyone to comply with anything because anyone can contribute. What is the Australian government going to do about that? The only thing they can do: enforce use restrictions on their subjects.

So fuck em. Let them do what they're going to do. Since when is it the responsibility of every product developer to comply with every law in every country? You can only comply with laws where it is in your interest to do business. If they want to ban a product in their country it is their prerogative.

The puzzles are so well presented as well, with a story. You’re saving Christmas!

Coming up with an excuse is just part of the challenge. You're already working hard to hide what you're doing.

If you can add together positive and negative numbers, you’re good to go!

They start out very easy, and get progressively harder.

Just start doing them, and continue as long as you enjoy them and find the time investment reasonable!

spent all that time figuring out if he could, and no time wondering if he should.

&gt; Ant-encryption

What is this, encryption for ants?!

He reinvented the wheel and decided to make it square.

Counterpoint: If I write a shell script that compiles C code, runs the resulting executable, then deletes it, did I just make an interpreter?

It’s a real production use case, though. Every README on npm’s website is rendered via a service written in Rust, dedicated to that.

They made that call due to performance, stability, and low memory usage.

And his other kid's name is Zoltan, which is kinda great.  I don't recall his middle name thought.

I’m using Julia this year. I took quite a liking in it from some smaller projects/use.

Last year I used Rust.

2016 I used JavaScript (classic in-browser client side JS; not the new fancy server side JS).

Supposedly the law applies to products and devices in the US and their makers (anywhere they are) the only thing special about Aussies is the government's ability to hold penalties over them.

In theory they could make the same requests to anyone, and intend to so (e.g. for Facebook which doesn't have an engineering presence in Australia).

Youtube man bad.

See the rest of this thread - any such compiled code unavoidably contains too much of the interpreter components, including dynamic variable name lookup and dynamic method dispatch.

No. It isn't. It's a completely different thing. It doesn't depend on a GPLed POSIX shim.

&gt; crotch-less panties

They always said "Less is more"

Most languages and environments that use UTF-16 don't *really* use UTF-16. It's usually UCS-2, which people just called "Unicode" back when most of these early implementations were made. It's a straight-up 16-bit encoding of each character. Since it was a fixed-width encoding, it offered most of the performance benefits that traditional 8-bit text encodings offered, so it seemed a reasonable choice at the time.

That is, until more characters were added to the Unicode standard and it was no longer possible to represent every character in a fixed 16-bit encoding.

That's when UTF-16 was introduced. This was designed to be backwards-compatible with UCS-2, with one major difference: a certain previously-unused range of values became reserved for those purpose of something called "surrogate pairs". A surrogate pair is basically a 32-bit encoding, used to encode the characters that are beyond the range that UCS-2 could encode. This means UTF-16 is capable of encoding all Unicode characters, but it is now a variable-width encoding, which means all those nice performance characteristics are thrown out the window. In UTF-16, you *can't* measure the number of characters in a string by taking the byte length and dividing. In UTF-16, you *can't* find the byte position of a character offset by taking that offset and multiplying. You have to actually read through the string.

Most UCS-2 implementations pretty much stuck with UCS-2, for performance reasons, with support for UTF-16 surrogate pairs kind of hacked on awkwardly. For example, in JavaScript, let's say you want to put the Unicode character U+1F600 into a string. You can do this using the UTF-16 surrogate pair '\uD83D\uDE00'. When you throw this string into a document, it will be properly converted to a single character in the document's charset. However, if you do '\uD83D\uDE00'.length, you get 2 instead of 1. '\uD83D\uDE00'.charAt(0) returns just '\uD83D', which is *not* a valid UTF-16 string. Basically, JavaScript strings aren't true Unicode strings, they're basically just byte strings that operate in two-byte increments and assume a UTF-16 encoding during conversions. Other languages that implemented Unicode early on have similar issues.

UTF-8 was introduced later, as a saner way to do variable-length Unicode encoding. Its performance characteristics are similar to UTF-16, but it's more compact and backwards-compatible with ASCII. There's basically no good reason for anything new to use UTF-16 over UTF-8 (and before you say something about Asian languages, the space savings of UTF-16 aren't as significant as you might think, once you mix in the markup/JS syntax and compression).

But the US requires my fingerprints everytime I visit

That's a great game although I could never get past that damnable snake on level...6?

You’re right in that it’s dangerous to assume that cryptography is flawless, but it’s got some very smart design. 

In your scenario, nothing would happen because the clients generate a new key for every message sent automatically. 

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double_Ratchet_Algorithm

Well,

a)its hosted in web (access from everywhere) - you just jump on your new PC , enter page and dowload all your config

b) doesnt require any preinstalled software - no dependencies (e.g. you are a player and wants to play your game on your friend's PC)

c) cross-platform (I dont know what stow is but I see its not available on e.g. windows)

In future I plan to add native app so you just click and the config is exported/imported automatically.So e.g. everytime you jump into new device you just do one click.

&gt;50s and 60s labour movements were strong enough to prevent fascist ideologies from taking hold among the working class

Okay so in the 50's and 60's there was still extremely rampant fascism. In Western Germany for example hundreds of Nazi Collaborators simply became government officials. The United States of America literally hangs [massive golden Fasces in their congress](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fasces#/media/File:Obama_Health_Care_Speech_to_Joint_Session_of_Congress.jpg). The [Fasces](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fasces) is the root work of Fascism. 

The [American Legion in the 1920's to 1930's](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_Legion#1920s) continued to invite Mussolini to give speeches at it's annual convention. Hell Mussolini whole sale ripped off [The Bellamy Salute](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bellamy_salute) from the US. Hitler modelled _Lebensraum_ off of [The American Manifest Destiny](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Manifest_destiny#Relationship_with_German_Lebensraum_ideology).

The Ford Motor Company used [slave labor in WW2 in Germany, and Ford won a medal for it](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henry_Ford#The_coming_of_World_War_II_and_Ford's_mental_collapse). Hell the Ford Motor had law suits against the US Government in the courts until [1998](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Ford_Motor_Company#Nazi_collaboration) concerning the destruction of their factory's _in nazi germany_. While building weapons of war for the enemy. 

The USA is the _real_ home of fascism.

There are at least 4 that I know of that have been reproduced. Google should be sufficient to find them.

Read the article.

&amp;#x200B;

&gt; [Reproducible builds](https://signal.org/blog/reproducible-android/) and other readily accessible binary comparisons make it possible to ensure the code we distribute is what is actually running on user’s devices. 

&amp;#x200B;

I'd be surprised if they were happy to remove signal.

thank you ;)

@AngularBeginner - I like minimalism

You described the difference between dynamic and static, not the difference between compiled and interpreted. If I used boost::any and hash tables all throughout my C++ program, for example, that doesn't make it interpreted just because it contains too much "dynamic" components.

Just a note, even with fixed width encodings you cannot measure the number of characters in a string using the number of bytes, only the number of codepoints, which are not the same as user perceived characters.

Depends on how long the neuralizer is set for. If they pop me for a day's worth of memory, I can look at the bug in the bug tracker, and the diff against the code in the repository and catch up quickly. That might work for up to a few days, or maybe a week, with the likelihood increasing that there's some conceptual breakthrough that I forget in that time.

Set for months: I'll probably be missing info on what we're doing in the current release, but a couple hours talking to coworkers, then a few days reviewing my closed bugs and such, and I think I could start working again. Set for a couple years: you start hitting on real losses of experience. If it's set for 10 years, I lose all of my professional experience. If it's set for 15, I lose the theoretical CS concepts I learned in college. A few years longer than that, and I'm back to the "teenage Windows power-user with an inflated ego" stage.

You are without a doubt one of the laziest thinkers I've ever seen. None of this contradicts my point. I didn't say 75%+ of millennial women were depressed. I said they were on anti-depressants or some other psychoactive, like Benzos. You need a medical diagnosis and a prescription for those. Dipshit.

&gt; the kind of person that is capable of all that is capable of designing their own encryption if they wanted to.

Have you ever designed an encryption algorithm? If so, have you ever done it in a way that you need to be able to have another person's device decrypt it to view the contents automatically and safely?

The math and logic of doing that well is far more complicated than "Sign up for a VPN, download APK, copy to phone, then tap it and hit install." Even the people who's job it is to make encryption do it wrong. Peer review finds all kinds of problems with so much software. It's entirely unreasonable to have the expectation for any given person to be capable of it, even if they have degrees in the field.

Google search results are personalized. If you want to cite a source, provide the links here and let's discuss. If you don't want to provide links, we will be happy to assume that your sources aren't strong enough for you to feel proud to share them.

yes ... on the other hand, it is kind of unfortunate that 'real time' was adopted in the first place to have a misleading meaning. I mean, what is "real" about "real time" systems. They should be called "deterministic time" or something that actually corresponds to the definition of the words employed.

Again, lazy. You can't even do your own research.

Yes? I mean it's streching the definition in ways that break it, but it still counts.

I learned about some of this nonsense when I was wondering why I couldn't seek a text stream. Boooooo.

The extra rightward-shift.

You made the claim. I'm not researching your claim. Until you can support it with evidence, safe to assume your claim is based on a sample size of one person. Your choice.

&gt;Natural. I'll see if I can find the link,

Your own words. I guess you couldn't manage to find it. :-)

&gt; I fully expect Atlassian to relocate 

So far, atlassians stock seems to be unaffected. 

Shouldn't people considering to stop using atlassian products have an impact on their stock?

I would think it's far more accurate to say they pass, by refusing to deal in these encodings.

I think you linked to the wrong post (You might have meant [this one](https://drewdevault.com/2018/08/08/Signal.html)?).

If I provide the link, are you willing to admit you were wrong?

Of course it’s a straw man. He has a mysterious group of “they” “SJWs”, he finds the most ridiculous example/argument that someone identifying in that group may or may not have made,(because it’s unattributed), and  then mocks that argument without even an attempt to dissect it analytically. Classic straw man. There is no totalitarian regime of sjws, just disparate people on the internet with varying opinions and no singular will.

And therefor they should have children? And risk postpartum depression? I don't think ANYONE here at this point would take any of your advice or your points seriously. Which is why you're resorting to ad hom. :-)

Good point. I had something around 30 minutes to 12 hours in mind

If I provide the evidence, will you admit you're wrong?

wow rip thank you lol I fixed it now

Very interesting, will have to do a second pass and watch the original talk. It's nice and very rare to read an article that's talking about tradeoffs in dynamic and static type systems while keeping a relatively balanced feel. Too much zealotry in these discussions (especially with the One True Way static typing peeps referenced in the article).

Nice work!

Nope, making your code dynamic exactly turns it into an ad hoc interpreter.

Who researches it?  Do I submit my patent application along with my own research?

Yeah, but I mean, unified on a single interface :D

~~'ANSI' or 'ASCII'?~~

EDIT: It does appear to be 'ANSI'.

It's interesting how very similar this is to Ada...guess the language designers really thought ahead for that language.

&gt;which is often important to ensuring the free reuse and modifiability of software.
 
Open Source doesn't work here, though. If the person in the interview said "this code is open source", the company would TOTALLY be allowed to use it for commercial purposes, as long as he was creditted somewhere. Just look at any modern device, you can view the entire list of hundreds of pieces of open source software sold to you on that device. 
 
If your intent is to stop someone from profitting from your code, Open Source doesn't help you. Open Source says it's 100% to take, modify, and then sell someone else's code.

That's interesting, have they made any statement regarding the policy?

I'll read the study and decide what I think based on the merit of the study. What is it I would be admitting I'm wrong about? The only thing I've claimed is that you haven't provided a source and that the sample size in your story was one person. Was I wrong about either of those things? :-)

Governments are de facto opposed practically to the rights of their people. They have to control their populations. This is the main reason why rights in America are enshrined into a document that is difficult to modify. Of course a government wants weaker encryption.

It is the responsibility of people to say "nope, fuck that, fuck you."

Encryption is the guns of the internet. The great equalizer 2.0.

If it's not obvious what the caller needs then it probably should be an error code rather than an exception.

Because the law is not completely passed yet as I understand?

`TCHAR` being `char` or `wchar_t` makes more sense when you realise that all functions dealing with text are also macros (like `TCHAR`) that expand to either the `-A` or the `-W` variant, which take `char *` and `wchar_t *` respectively.

This allows library code to be ambivalent to how the application is compiled.  This is especially useful where some application is combining unicode aware and unicode unaware libraries.

If you happen to be under control of all the code going into your application, by all means use the `-W` variants with UTF-16 encoded `wchar_t` arrays.

Also, UCS2 and UTF-16 are encodings, `wchar_t` is a data type (with no implication on encoding).

Instead JavaScript becomes the king of the hill which is in the other end of the spectrum of helping developer find bugs before production.

True. There are several layers of abstraction: bytes, code units, codepoints, grapheme clusters... The word "character" is colloquially used to refer to any of these, depending on what layer we're talking about. A grapheme cluster is what we think of as a "user-perceived character" in language. A grapheme cluster could consist of a codepoint for a letter and another codepoint for its accent mark, for example.

A canary? Lots of products already have that. A message that says "we aren't compromised" that will disappear if they are.

I. What is the overhead?

At a glance, I could not find any indication of the overhead of transactions spanning multiple nodes. In a typical RDBMS, a write transaction will take at least 5ms, which roughly corresponds to the time it takes for the RDBMS to write to the disk. What would be the overhead for Citrus to write data in a single transaction on two different nodes, with L the one-way latency between the two nodes?

II. Is the comparison to Spanner fair?

As far as I can tell, the primary goal of Spanner is not so much to scale in number of machines as it is to scale in number of *locations*. There is a vast difference between a distributed database of N hosts in the same rack and a distributed database of N hosts in N datacenters spread all over the world. The latency between the nodes will profoundly impact the synchronization mechanisms.

As such, would Citrus fair well in the same usecase as Spanner (spread around a country/continent/world), or would the synchronization mechanism used in write transactions lead to horrendous performance?

The legislation specifically states against weakening encryption.

It seems like what they want (without having explicitly stated it, perhaps because they're not tech savvy) that they want everyone to use client-server encryption protocols, so that the encryption can still be strong, but the servers can still log everything as well.

This is obviously still problematic though since it prevents serverless communication options (or at least encrypted serverless communication, which is similar).

What really puzzles me is that this thing is built into the .Net framework.

I think it's largely just Sarah Mei he ends up arguing with. They've tangled before.

I love when try-hards do stupid shit like that. It brands them as someone not to be trusted, and none of their stupid-ass ideas are ever listened to again.

Telegram is basically a scam and is less secure than most commercial instant messengers.

edit: lol downvoting doesn't change reality, losers.

&gt; they're not obligated to put a backdoor in, 

They're not only not obligated to put a back door in, **they're specifically obligated to _avoid_ implementing weakness or vulnerabilities such as a typical backdoor**.

Nope, the GUI is actually called SSMS, and it does NOT import proper CSV. You can't import columns if they have newlines in the text, or commas because it doesnt handle quoted columns

Not only is it not on by default, it's not available for group chats or on the desktop client.

Unexpected r/boardgames

it is addressed in the blog post. Reproduciable builds.

You dont think that people will not go and check if the binary that they are running on their phone is same as the one they reproduced?

And it's completely incompatible with [Punycode](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Punycode) (which does a very similar thing)...

L

O

L

If they go through with it then they can say GOOD FUCKING BYE to any resemblance to a national tech industry

Punycode is a representation of Unicode with the limited ASCII character subset used for Internet host names. Using Punycode, host names containing Unicode characters are transcoded to a subset of ASCII consisting of letters, digits, and hyphen, which is called the Letter-Digit-Hyphen (LDH) subset. For example, München (German name for Munich) is encoded as Mnchen-3ya.

Google openly didn't give a shit about privacy and Apple only cares until it has the potential of any negative impact on their profits. Secure smartphones are going to be so thing of the past in all likelihood.

Very nice article!

PS. please consider adding dates to your articles.

&gt; If you choose to have an end-to-end encryption chat (Called a 'secret chat' in Telegram) then of course they don't store keys. 

So are regular conversations encrypted as well, "just" not end-to-end?

It's strange that the walls absorb 100% of the light.   The shadows are representing the player's vision more than how light actually behaves.

I managed to convince many of my frequent contacts to switch to Signal because SMS was so unreliable.  I believe a big factor in SMS being so unreliable is that it is federated, so you never know who to blame for its problems.  I agree, federated would be good, but for me, reliability is a bigger concern.

Java runs a variant of UTF-8.

Highly highly unlikely considering that it uses end-to-end encryption. That makes it very difficult to circumvent, as there would have to be a major exploitable vulnerability in the protocol (which is the same sort protocol that Signal uses as far as I understand).

Ignore the other seemingly ignorant/biased replies here. They seem to be based on fear/bias instead of fact.

That said, I do not like WhatApp myself and wouldn't recommend it, but that's entirely for separate reasons.

a license that says: you can use it,modify it etc etc. but not commercial purposes.

Are you sure it's the browsers that fail, and not the web server mishandling the encoding?

Wrong

"bootstrap" is the right word. Imagine they've never worked with java before. Setting up the project and getting it to a basic working state and sending and receiving messages is the most tedious, least satisfying, most unpredictable part of the project. Keep in mind that you've never written java before and this was a while ago when it was harder to set up and get going.  

You figure a college grad who's been doing java throughout college would be able to get this running over a weekend. So you pretend to be hiring, assign a "sample" project to several people who apply, take one of them that works and use it as the base for your new project.  

Now you can start with something that's already working.

The legislation specifically states to avoid implementing any sort of vulnerability or weakness, which a typical backdoor would be categorized as.

&gt; There's more than enough of various decentralized ~~exchanges~~ cryptocurrencies in the market, but they work slowly and no one needs them.

What if they set it for 40?

&gt;You need a medical diagnosis

Of what? What would that medical diagnosis be? Why would someone be diagnosed as needing an **anti-depressant**? Heart disease? :-D

&amp;#x200B;

Interesting read, if mostly obvious. Most of all, please learn the difference between "your" and "you're" - correct communication is so important for establishing an authoritative  voice.

&gt; Got a ticket to a project nobody’s touched in 3 years? Here is how to deal with it.

Is that all it takes to be considered legacy code now?

&gt; Crypto and code is hard.

Yes.

&gt; Even when things are in plain sight, it takes a tremendous amount of skill and effort to discover weaknesses in cryptographic libraries.

No. Not for the good libraries.

Many primitives are hard to implement correctly, and then hard to review. The new primitives are different:

- Symmetric crypto is now all constant time, with no input dependent branch, and no input dependent index. All control flow and memory access patterns are a function of input *lengths*, which makes it extremely easy to test (just try all lengths from zero to several times the size of the block (how much depends on the implementation)).

- Symmetric crypto fails catastrophically at the slightest error, because of the way it mangles its input. If you have test vectors, or a trusted reference implementation, you can be sure that any error will produce different outputs very easily.

- curve25519 and curve448 don't have many of the pitfalls that befalls many earlier public key systems. They're still dangerous (modular arithmetic is hard to test properly), but much less so than stuff like ECDSA.

Sure, not everybody can properly review a crypto library, not even TweetNacl, or (shameless plug) [Monocypher](https://monocypher.org). But it doesn't take long for a security company to review them thoroughly, and you can be sure that if they find any flaws, those flaws aren't coming back. Such small and simple libraries are just too stable.

Now can you *personally* tell whether I introduce a backdoor in Monocypher last week? Probably not, you'll have to trust me. On the other hand, you only have me to trust: the library is small enough that I get very few external patches, and except for the documentation they were *all* very small and trivial to review. Any remaining error is _mine_.

Also, as libraries stabilises (which is already the case for TweetNaCl, and is _becoming_ the case for Monocypher), there comes a point where you don't even have to trust the original author: the latest version will be old, thoroughly reviewed, and found flawless. Then you can just get a copy from a source you trust—or even several, so you can compare if there's any difference.

This feels like every software tool advertised to me

&gt; Pretty much any PLT specialist out there.

Should be easy then to find a source, right?

Thanks

They don't follow the Trumpian model because Trump adheres to the American constitution which is much more liberal and put much more restrictions on what the government can or can't do. Australia is a nanny state and the government has and use much more power than in the US against their citizens. If you are in tech you wouldn't want to move to Australia from various reasons even if this law didn't exist but that's a different story.

No. Chrome throws up when the HTML is encoded with a different encoding than the CSS

Without ability authority is meaningless.

My framework is the software running in my brain.

Psst: don't tell them.

https://www.theregister.co.uk/2018/11/30/blockchain_study_finds_0_per_cent_success_rate/

&gt; bad code should only be brought to life when it will have a life-span so short that death is already looming in the shadows waiting to snatch it

So never really

I watched the talk and think Rich is insanely smart but misses the forest for the trees.

I honestly kept thinking "okay so implicit operators and interfaces solve pretty much all of this", but maybe I'm missing something.

Also, in a statically typed language you could change the signature and consumers would just have to update their code to send `Just x` instead of `x` and we could call it a day. It's a big reason why I can't hop on the dynamic typing hype train.

40 years? ARrrrrghgh buuuuuuuuuuuuhhhhh \*drool falls onto the keyboard as khedoros slumps over in the chair\*

Lots of other good articles as well.

it is really really really tiny!

I don't get the "everyone should code" argument.

Here, let me do it with a different skill:

"Years ago people fought against illiteracy. Their ideas probably seemed crazy back then. Today, we face a new form of illiteracy: CNC milling illiteracy. CNC milling can (and should!) be fun. Our duty is to educate normal people on CNC milling techniques. Here's a bunch of people who agree with me"

I dunno. Everyone should be able to deconstruct problems and think critically. Not everyone should have to deal with pointers.

so what do you propose as root and stump remover, figuratively of course?

Neither, right? ASCII is 7-bit and ANSI isn't the name of any text standard (ANSI is an org that helped come up with US-ASCII, the 8-bit char set based on ASCII for the USA).

When people say ANSI, they generally mean ISO/IEC 8859.

I have the same feeling; I hate encoding and seeing stackoverflow problems / articles on the topic give me a headache about how to speak on the topic clearly.

What do you mean by this?

It doesn't look like shadows, more like infinitely high walls. But I actually think these infinitely high walls look way better than proper shadows; looks very unique. If you added some lighting &amp; textures to the walls it'd look perfect.

I'm reminded of [Cozy](https://github.com/CozySynthesizer/cozy), a project for datastructure synthesis.

It's focused mostly on generating collection/map data structures that have complicated internal bookkeeping but simple interfaces.

(e.g.)

    MyDataStructure:
        state elements : Bag&lt;Int&gt;
        query size()
            len elements
        query containsZero()
            exists [x | x &lt;- elements, x == 0]
        op addElement(x : Int)
            elements.add(x);

I did say it reminds me of Cozy, but they actually solve different problems:

* Cozy generates data structures where a complete specification is obvious, but implementing the interface efficiently is tedious or error-prone
* Artemis seems focused on improving benchmarks; e.g. recognizing where an Array vs an ArrayList might be more useful. It uses a test suite rather than a specification, and it doesn't invent whole new data structures, it just selects the right one from those available (after generalizing based on your actual usage).

.NET is ooollld.

Australia is pretty big. Oh you mean diplomat-power size big.

You don't need a decidable type-inference, but your type should be total (i.e. terminating). Undecidability just require to you annotate types manually, nothing more.

&gt; The Boeing 777 - with over 1,500 and growing planes world-wide, is  fly-by-wire and highly automated. 99% of its software was all written in  Ada. 

Is there a source for this? I have not found a reference that the critical path control software was written in Ada, but secondary, systems, like environment control. (Not disputing, just curious)

Let's start with your other post first...

You said this:

&gt;Password rules force your password to be harder to brute force

This is only true if you are the kind of person to use a simple to guess password. What you are talking about is password 'restrictions', not rules. Restrictions restrict the types of passwords you can use. So no birthdates, no top 10000 passwords, no emails, etc. Password rules require you to use certain character classes. 

Alright, now back to pins:

&gt;Let's pivot to 4 digit PINs for an example where that's not the case.

OK. already off to a bad start here. Not only are there several rules in place here that make pins a bad example, you then go on to use password restrictions on top of it to make the rules palatable. 

---

Password rules for pins:

1\. Only numbers

Right there you have suddenly taken a possibility of _at least_ `128^4` and reduced it to to `10^4`. 

2\.  Length 4

now that we're at `10^4` you could still recover this by _allowing_  for more characters. You get an order of magnitude (literally) more difficult to break for every character longer you allow. 

---

Alright, now that we've shown that PINs are by default _less secure_, let's look at your discussion of a **password restriction**. 

You state 

&gt;So if I had a set of 100 accounts to break into, I could run through 1918-2018 on each one then move on. On average, I would now have access to 20% of those accounts using only 100 guesses for each one. Assuming no other known patterns, I'd have to brute force the rest.

And this is _absolutely true_. In fact you're not just protecting the people that are being dumb and using a year as a PIN, but you're also protecting those that have no possibility to choose a longer PIN in case they accidentally choose a year like that as well. 

But, sadly, your entire premise is flawed. If you can brute force a PIN like this then it doesn't really matter. In fact, PINs are probably the worst possible example of password rules imaginable. 

The discussion that is taking place is how to make passwords more secure. You do that by:

1. No password rules. Password rules only serve to limit the valid passwords available and thus make the entire space more easily searchable. Especially since the attacker will have the list of rules. You can see that this **_only effects those that choose good passwords_**.
2. Use password restrictions. Don't allow top 10000 passwords, don't allow the user's email address, minimum length, not max length, etc. Notice that this _**only effects those that choose bad passwords**_

There is of course the ability of users just, you know, [download](https://signal.org/download/) the .apk and sideload it in.

Because processors are complicated: 
https://stackoverflow.com/a/43845229

Overflows if you younger than that

&gt; are internal aspects (tech debt, bugs,..) part of your POs backlog?

Bugs are not internal aspects. They're placed in the backlog and will be prioritized by the PO. Not every bug needs to be fixed. It's up to the PO what is more important: implement new features or fix bugs (and in what order). If a bug prevents the implementation of a story, then the work is part of the story.

Technical debt is not part of the backlog. It should be tracked somewhere, but that "where" is up to the team. It's none of the POs concern. The team is responsible for the quality of the product, the team is responsible to decide what work needs to be done to implement features **and** to keep the product maintainable. But this doesn't mean that work should be done behind the back of the PO. Communication and explanation is the important. But backlog stories for technical debts are pointless, because the PO won't understand them and won't be able to prioritize them meaningful.

&gt; Why are you treating both backlogs with different strategies?

You don't. The PO prioritizes the stories in the backlog, he presents them in the sprint planning and the team decides what needs to be done to implement the story. If technical debt needs to be resolved first, then this is part of the story.

&gt; What if: resolving lower priority features from his backlog for 2 sprints would allow you to actually implement his higher priority feature? Maybe a different attempt: would'nt it make sense to pull his items in a way that allows you to work on a related topic within one sprint?

It may make sense, but it's up to the PO what stories are important. But again: Communication is important. The PO is not your enemy, the PO is a partner. If you explain your PO your reasons for particular requests, then I'm sure the PO will listen. Or the PO might have important reasons for his decisions. If the PO and the team are fighting, then you have a dysfunctional team and Scrum is not working for you.

**Communication is the key to Scrum.** Both PO and team want to create a great product.

Yeah I mentioned that two comments up:

&gt;&gt;Google mainly handles the search engine

&gt;Google was restructured to focus on it's core mission. The internet. 

&gt;From the founding letter:

&gt;&gt;What is Alphabet? Alphabet is mostly a collection of companies. The largest of which, of course, is Google. This newer Google is a bit slimmed down, with the companies that **are pretty far afield of our main internet products contained in Alphabet instead. What do we mean by far afield? Good examples are our health efforts**: Life Sciences (that works on the glucose-sensing contact lens), and Calico (focused on longevity). Fundamentally, we believe this allows us more management scale, as we can run things independently that aren’t very related.
&gt;&gt;&gt; https://abc.xyz/

These languages are not comparable with Ada and can't be used for hard real time systems, control software etc.

The only current popular language that is really comparable is Rust (hence the frequent comparison).

Once I noticed that I was like "Well that seems like an interesting way to tackle 2D lighting".

&amp;#x200B;

It seems the original definition of fascism had to do with collective strength, with "fascio" meaning a bundle of rods.
What you are referring to is one of the ideas of fascism; it was posed as government taking control of business, but the modern version with business taking control of government could be argued to be similar.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corporatism#Fascist_corporatism

I think you mean "a variant of unicode". Java definitely isn't using UTF-8 internally, though it can output UTF-8 serialized objects.

Internally Java uses 16-bit chars unless you use `-XX:+UseCompressedStrings`. [If you use](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/tech/vmoptions-jsp-140102.html) `-XX:+UseCompressedStrings` then Java will use 8-bit strings for US-ASCII chars and 16-bit strings otherwise.

Java's 16bit strings were UCS-2 originally, but have [since switched to UTF-16 in more recent JVMs](https://stackoverflow.com/a/36236799/308709). /u/Nanobot gave a [good description of UCS-2 vs UTF-16](https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/a23cci/utf7_a_ghost_from_the_time_before_utf8/eavfzlc/)

Or, at the cost of an extra `{`, `}`, and `.` before each argument, you could avoid having globals (maybe the worst part of this solution), and most of this boilerplate, and just designated-initialize a struct?

I'm working on a Medium programming language so people can belive in their code.

Please star the project on GitHub, because that's how we measure code quality.

Or just write a compete recursive descent parser that can parse the whole file to an ast

So your basic premise here is they were already in the patent process, but still months away from submitting it, and the very people listed on the patent who were already in the process didn't think the plethora of prior art they were seeing was at all relevant, and that when confronted they offered to include the one person confronting them, but not any of the others that they "forgot" about... and all of this for something that won't make money?

What the fuck kind of logic is that?

You're going through contortions in an effort to make the facts support this in any way.

/r/thingsforants

I suppose I'm not a Java wizard, but my understand is that the general JVM spec uses a sort of [UTF-8, as of Java 8 at least](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/specs/jvms/se8/html/jvms-4.html#jvms-4.4.7). I suppose the difference is in runtime.

I use Telegram a lot, and I'm fully aware that it is not secure by default, but I don't mind because that's not why I use it. I use it because it's a great messenger with open source components, it's got features that I love, there's a choice of clients/apps, and all of ~~the other furries~~ my friends are also using it. And holy fuck so many user created sticker packs.

 I generally use it to hang out in interest groups, and to send my friends shitposts.

Did you just copy/past the first paragraph from the link?

And employers in the US often require drug testing, which AFAIK is illegal in Australia.

Edit - drug testing is not allowed:
&gt; Australian industrial courts and tribunals are now accept that random drug testing by employers is an intrusion of an employee's privacy and can only be legitimised on work, health and safety grounds. ... Beyond that, no employer has the right to dictate what drugs or alcohol its employees use in their own time.

From [here](https://nuaa.org.au/looking-for-help/legal-issues/drug-testing/).

Don't post article indexes, post the articles themselves.

Yeah, but WhatsApp making that choice, combined with their lazy implementation, means that you can't have a WhatsApp account shared across multiple devices. (If you have the WhatsApp desktop client, it's just a viewport for the copy of WhatsApp running on your phone.)

The only service that's doing E2EE *right* is iMessage. It's actually hard.

lol no structural subtyping

&gt; And something else nobody needs.

etcd is widely used in kubernetes clusters

EDIT: formatting

It may be a misnomer, but in this context, the A in the function name stands for ["ANSI"](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/desktop/LearnWin32/working-with-strings#unicode-and-ansi-functions).

It's not like they will be "Oh, okay then, rollback the law"
They will push it harder. Banning apps, services and everything that doesn't follo the law.

And things will only get worst. Other goverments will follow, and some companies will comply to the law seeing an opportunity to make money.

There's clearly a middle ground between jumping in heads first, and  not bothering to try to be better. I think that's what your parent is advocating for here. Build something small to gain experience and find the obvious strengths and weaknesses, then commit.

It's not even a tutorial, it's a collection of *links to tutorials*.

&amp;#x200B;

However, creating and curating lists of resources can be a crazy amount of work. That, and it still has all the aspects of an open source project - the "source code" is available, it's open to contributions, you have to deal with bug reports and pull requests, argue with users over should and shouldn't be in your project, etcetera.

&amp;#x200B;

It might not be a "software" project, but it's definitely an "open source" project.

They fail stress tests as in they can’t perform under the same traffic load?

Every government wants a back door unless it's to something they use. Especially if that back door was tailored by another nationality, ally or not.

utf-7 support: check

 json support: better find a third party library

The only thing I don't like about this article is that it just scratches the surface of what SQL can do. To be fair, you could write a very thick book about that and how to do it.

I personally love working on new projects where I don't understand any of the data flow, none of the previous programmers drew me a map, and I don't have an automated system to guide me.

Regular conversations are encrypted between you and Telegram's servers, just like any webpage using HTTPS is encrypted between you and the web server.

But regular conversations have their history stored on Telegram's servers, so that you can view it on any device you use Telegram with. It's just like any other messaging service in this regard. It's common for large groups to have previous history visible to new members, as well.

Telegram's "secret chats" are truly end to end, Telegram just facilitates the key exchange between you and the other party, and possibly passes the encrypted messages between you both (I'm not sure if it's peer to peer), but it has no way of seeing the content of your conversation. Obviously there can be no cloud storage with this method, and any saved history is local to your device.

&gt;Neither, right?

I now have better access to a search engine, and it appears to be 'ANSI', as Windows apparently has functions that allow 8-bit character strings that they call 'ANSI' (and which is probably Windows-1252, a modification of ISO-8859-1).

I would have assumed 'ASCII', though, since it seems (perhaps naively) easier to extend an ASCII (ie. 7-bit) interface to accept UTF-8.

If he does more shit like this, he's also going to be spending a lot of time waiting for his code to compile.

There's plenty of schools of thought, but Scrum doesn't perscribe this explicitly.  It's more about creating a common understanding.

Kanban is explicitly pulling work in progress

/r/mallninjashit was trending yesterday

I'm confused about why classes and contravariance, covariance and the Liskov substitution principle aren't mentioned at all.

if Just&lt;T&gt; and Unit&lt;T&gt; are both subtypes of Maybe&lt;T&gt; then in many languages it is possible to implement for:

    interface Fooer&lt;T&gt; {
     void fooer(Unit&lt;T&gt; x);
    }

    class FooImpl&lt;T&gt; {
     void fooer(Maybe&lt;T&gt; x) {
       // ...
     }
    }

or

    interface Fooer&lt;T&gt; {
     Maybe&lt;T&gt; fooer();
    }

    class FooImpl&lt;T&gt; {
     Unit&lt;T&gt; fooer() {
       // ...
     }
    }

This doesn't cover the product/row polymorphism cases though of where

    interface Fooer&lt;T&gt; {
     void fooer(T t, Y y);
    }

    class FooImpl&lt;T&gt; {
     void fooer(T x) {
       // ...
     }
    }

or

    interface Fooer&lt;T&gt; {
     T fooer();
    }

    class FooImpl&lt;T&gt; {
      (T,Y) fooer() {
       // ...
     }
    }

I suppose Typescript probably supports that with intersections. Something like:

    interface Fooer&lt;T&gt; {
     // &amp;Y is a constraint restricting T.
     T&amp;Y fooer();
    }

    class FooImpl&lt;T&gt; {
      T fooer() {
       // ...
     }
    }

But that isn't quite as extensible.

It's kind of possible to hack this into Haskell using existentially quantified type class constraints but it's kind of awkward and hard to typecheck without lots of annotations which defeats the purpose (I haven't checked recent GHC for a long time though.)

I can think of a handful of projects I know are on self hosted bitbuckets that the us gov definitely does not want Australia getting it's grubby venomous koala petting mits on. The people who decide what code repo to use are not politicians pushing this kind of bullshit.

If they fail, that’s actually a good thing! Those character encodings are quite intentionally *never supposed to work* in a proper modern web browser.

Why? Adding support for rarely-used encodings could open up potential security issues. It also leads to the sort of browser fragmentation the web is trying to move away from… if one browser suddenly starts supporting UTF-7, pretty soon UTF-7 encoded websites will start popping up. People using other browsers will start complaining, and before long, *every* browser feels the need to add UTF-7 support. Since everyone’s pretty much settled on UTF-8 as a decent universal standard, it makes sense to strongly discourage browser developers from supporting niche charsets. It just adds needless complexity for everyone.

Quoting the [HTML5 spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/html5/syntax.html#character-encodings) (emphasis mine):

&gt; User agents must support the encodings defined in the WHATWG Encoding specification […] **User agents must not support other encodings.**
&gt; 
&gt; NOTE:  
&gt; The above prohibits supporting, for example, CESU-8, UTF-7, BOCU-1, SCSU, EBCDIC, and UTF-32. This specification does not make any attempt to support prohibited encodings in its algorithms; support and use of prohibited encodings would thus lead to unexpected behavior.

Everyone’s favorite browser to hate, Internet Explorer, actually *did* support UTF-7 at least through IE9. And sure enough, this led to a [security vulnerability](http://michaelthelin.se/security/2014/06/08/web-security-cross-site-scripting-attacks-using-utf-7.html) and yet another reason to hate IE.

Thank you for the tip, I'll work on improving that / revise the article.

&gt; I like minimalism

You give minimalism as a reason to not provide any information at all, but have a bloated website. Using Angular for a static site, several animations and plenty of drop shadows.

If it's not end to end encryption, what's the point?  What you're describing is just standard HTTPS.

I think it is a cool effect I’ve never seen before. Really makes me feel like I’m in a gigantic hall or castle. I think a fun and cool dungeon game could be made with this effect with a little more work.

She was also a processor pioneer, designed the logic and ALUs for some early machines.

&gt; Regular conversations are encrypted between you and Telegram's servers

Right, so _those_ keys are stored in different juridictions, I suppose. Somewhat clever, but still vastly inferior to Signal's end-to-end encryption everywhere, of course. (At least in term of secrecy.)

On some popular x86 processors (at least around 2008 when I was actively looking into this kind of thing), the "string instructions" (MOVS, STOS, etc.) executed significantly slower than regular MOVs.  I believe later processors have gone some way to addressing this.  Maybe someone with more knowledge can add some more specifics.

I disagree on *some* of this. If you're optimizing only for performance, then yes, do as much as you can in sql. But for most businesses, maintainability is a valuable thing; Logic in SQL is not maintainable. Its very difficult to organize logical operations like these, making it hard to find for future developers. 

Having operations done in code gives a hard reference to how a value is generated, whereas searching through sql to find either a stored procedure or a view, with tons of aliased variables, is always tedious.

Java uses UTF-16. Not UTF-16BE or UTF-16LE, since the Java language specification doesn't enforce a specific endianness.

It was created in the simpler times when people though 65536 characters will be enough for everybody.

It also has certain APIs that make extracting correct Unicode codepoints easier, but from my experience, not many people actually use them.

EDIT: by "using UTF-16" I mean using 16-bit code units and using only those unless really careful. `String#length` counts code units, for example.

I watched this video not long after I saw Brian Will's video criticizing OOP. One of the funniest things is that Henney draws spaghetti between procedures to visualize an impetus for OOP, and Will drew spaghetti between objects to visualize an impetus to drop OOP. Let's just say, I think the issue all too often is the carpenter, not the saw.

I can't see how we could confirm it either way without seeing the dump itself.

Not sure about that but there is interop with JS. Even if there is no way to do that in pure Razor code I'd at least hook a JS error handler for communication errors.

Nope, I've seen people talking about non 8bit clean email servers well into the 2000s. Just because the network is 8 bit clean doesn't mean the software is.

Hell it's probably still possible to misconfigure sendmail to not be 8bit clean.

The main issue I have with this concept (maybe because I'm crap at SQL) is it adds yet another layer to a program stack.

    UI →  ui controller → data logic → database logic → database storage

You can't do all data logic in SQL so you're stuck doing *some* in SQL and *some* in another language. More places for a bug to creep in and cause difficult-to-troubleshoot errors.

I think there  are good times to do an operation in SQL, especially if performance is a requirement or the data is saying in the DB such as inserting a log entry.  Maybe if I was better at SQL it would be easier to see the logical divide between data logic and DB logic... but it doesn't feel like it.

No, they didn't have user passwords, they had passwords for connecting to database. You can't have that hashed, it has to be in a config that is accessible to application server side.

you're telling me...

I get people arguing with me constantly about this on reddit, for example.  And there are **absolutely** times when you want the extra complication built in early, but you better be damned sure it's a good idea to put it in.  IMO, this is what it means to be experienced vs inexperienced, the experienced can make that determine correctly much more often.

It's also why being self-reflective is so important.  Even senior engineers need to be able to determine if they have a good grasp on what's going to be asked of the system in the next 3 months, 6 months, year, and so forth.

And you don't always have to build in all of the complexity at the front even if you know a feature request is going to come down the pipe in the next 6 months.  All you need to do is ensure the current design won't currently fight that feature request.  In other words, it's not always strictly one or the other (absolute simplest or super flexible).

but I get so much pushback on that.

Jesus Christ, just use one of the million PHP dotenv libs. https://github.com/vlucas/phpdotenv or https://github.com/symfony/dotenv will do just fine.

Comparing sms to an internet messaging system is an apples and oranges comparison. Imagine if outlook email users could only email other outlook users.

Signal currently allows you to host your own signal server, but they have purposely made it so that if you host your own signal server you can only message people on your own personal signal server rather than anyone on any signal server. If they were to approve patches to federate signal than even if the original signal company falls apart or starts doing things the users do not like they can simply host their own versions. Basically it would make signal not a walled garden. Signals server code is open source, but you have to trust them that they're actually running the server software that they publish and not a modified and backdoored version. If signal was federated there would be no need to trust them. Instead you could run your own instance if you were suspicious, or if even an onion routed server for individuals in countries where the use of signal will result in jail time.

If you're interested in this idea. Good news people are currently making it. [It's called matrix.](https://matrix.org) You'll need a client like [riot](https://about.riot.im/) to use the matrix network. Matrix is far from perfect and is being developed in a careful and slow manner. The servers at signal are reasonably stable and the open whisper group seems to care about privacy, but that could change at any moment and all of their users would have no power to do anything about it other than completely restart with a new messaging service. That to me is not reliable.

It really isn't.

Using less JS and therefore having less errors in the code makes sense for the project. If the downsides are not important this upside may be the tilting point. Also note that this tech has a good path forward 5 years from now when wasm is good enough to run C#, then you can tell your project to run on the client instead with minimal changes.

I wouldn't know. Never got that far :(

People who complain about SJWs are a million times more prevelant and just as worse than SJWs.

That's used for loading constants from class files.

After loading, they're stored as UTF-16.

Or, use gnu make's syntax, and use gmake anywhere.

Tested with Sylpheed and Opera Mail (M2) with:

test.mbs:

    From 
    From: from@example.com
    Subject: Test
    MIME Version: 1.0
    Content-Type: text/plain; charset="UTF-7"
    Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

    test +Iho- me

and with Thunderbird with:

test.eml

    From: from@example.com
    Subject: Test
    MIME Version: 1.0
    Content-Type: text/plain; charset="UTF-7"
    Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

    test +Iho- me

Both Sylpheed and Thundbird support it. Opera Mail doesn't though as Opera dropped UTF-7 support in Presto-based Opera way back in the day.

(The Iho is √. "\u221a" -&amp;gt; btoa("\x22\x1a") -&amp;gt; Iho= -&amp;gt; Iho)

&gt; Is a 15% reduction in bugs making it all the way through your development pipeline worth it to you?

Found at https://blog.acolyer.org/2017/09/19/to-type-or-not-to-type-quantifying-detectable-bugs-in-javascript/.

Yeah, supporting a non-ASCII-compatible encoding (be it UTF-7 or ShiftJIS) is asking for trouble. (Although I guess it makes sense to support ShiftJIS due to its popularity.)

The good things about ISO 8859 encodings, UTF-8 and most Windows codepages is that you can use ASCII-focused filtering and escaping mechanisms and you should be safe. You can't say the same about UTF-7.

This doesn't really address the main draw of named arguments, which is reordering.  That is, 

    displayCoolName(firstName = "James", lastName = "Bond");

Should do the same as

    displayCoolName(lastName = "Bond", firstName = "James");

Nice work! What kind of maths are you using?

Can't the law compel employees to retrieve information without disclosing their actions to the company or am I reading the articles wrong? It doesn't matter what he thinks, every employee in the company is a security risk.

Wow. Just wow. So somebody's gonna set up a project for them as *part of an interview*??? The word "schmuck" comes to mind....

I understood some of those words..

There are existing solutions for comments. You don't have to implement it yourself!

He explained what he meant, and it's the meaning I gleaned from it without his clarification, so I think you need to drop it.

At some point we all need to grow up, put on our big boy pants, and realize that we should be taking someone for their intent.  And yes, I'm sure that's also offensive in some way.

You really get into fun stuff when you embrace the fact that meaning is arbitrary.

I was replying to a statement made (and sentiment expressed) by the speaker, not to the question of types in particular (I'm familiar with the [empirical findings](https://danluu.com/empirical-pl/)). That statement amounts to, "if there's no data we should rely on personal opinion, because we have no choice." First, we have a choice, and there are weaker, but still valid insights to be gained from evidence that isn't controlled experiments, and second, even when there is no choice, the situation lends *less*, not more, credence to personal opinions.

[This article](http://articles.nhmtech.com/maybe-not-ocaml-hickey/index.html) was recently linked to on r/programming. It discusses an approach using row-polymorphism in Ocaml. Maybe this article helps explain the difference?

Is he a Tintin fan?

`ropjar` and `rilkef` were constructed according to the lojban `CVCCV` structure for root words, plus a consonant to turn them into a proper noun. `flopnax the ropjar` also has the same number syllables as [Rockin the Casbah](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WEWG6kSYqlY), which was in my head at the time.

&gt; Is a 15% reduction in bugs making it all the way through your development pipeline worth it to you?

Iterations are good for the CPU. It guesses the answer of next instructions by making predictions.

I've found that approach gets painful to evolve, so I've started taking the approach of just asking each project to maintain their own list of data structures.

That's not the point of the code that powers my portfolio site though :P

We all like to talk about code reusability, doing the crunching and cleaning in the database can make it a lot easier. Either within the same program or especially across different programs. It also helps ensure that everybody is using the same logic to produce their data sets. 

If you have to deal with databases, SQL really can do an amazing amount of work for you. In a lot less lines of code.

For a lot of people it’s a fight against a corporate behemoth. David vs Goliath kinda thing.

https://citemaster.net/get/db3a81c6-548e-11e5-9d2e-00163e009cc7/R8.pdf

This is a great article talking about the FBW and PFC (Primary Flight Computer) architecture of the 777

See page 6 specifically "Each PFC channel contains three dissimilar processor lanes, and software from Ada source code using three different Ada compilers to provide triple dissimilarity". 

It's interesting to note that they had more faith in the correctness of the Ada code than the compilers, or even the processor hardware, since they used the same code for all lanes!

The context behind it was trying to see how far he could go with Fiverr before they said no. Pewdiepie is not an anti-Semite, he was just as shocked as the media who decided to pin it all on him a few days later to fit their anti-YouTube agenda.

&gt; Using less JS and therefore having less errors in the code makes sense for the project.

Honestly, as a person who works with the web on a daily basis, I don't find JS to be all that bad. CSS, on the other hand...

I don't think he was saying that the changes required would be difficult. It just makes no sense that a function could loosening the strictness of its arguments forces callers to change their code. 

The fact that you have to handle it in userspace by wrapping it in `Just` is an indication that the type system is lacking.

Of course, that's not to say that dynamic typing is strictly better, since spec is essentially a whole type system in userspace (with tooling, because lisp). Only that Maybe and friends are perhaps suboptimal, especially if your language can support something like spec

I do like where his head is at with where spec is going. I worry that it will add a little too much song and dance, but I certainly wouldn't argue that he missed the forest for the trees.

Yeah. Telegram talks up their security, but they don't entirely seem to take it seriously. There's also the fact that they [rolled their own cryptography](https://core.telegram.org/mtproto/description), which they have received [academic criticism^[PDF]](https://eprint.iacr.org/2015/1177.pdf) for.

&gt; We described two simple attacks which show that MTProto, the symmetric encryption scheme used by Telegram, fails to achieve desirable notions of security
such as indistinguishability under chosen-ciphertext attack or authenticated encryption.

Smear campaign.

A few years back there was a similar incident. A german comedian 'Jan Böhmermann' wrote, and told on TV, a poem only  consisting of racist slurs against turks and insults against the turkish president Erdogan (example: 'goat fucker').

It was to show what you should not do and how far you can go. Back then the media was all about free speech and how we have to be able to do satire even if it **seems** offensive at first, **but with context** really isn't.

[Wallstreet Journal](https://www.wsj.com/articles/germany-investigating-comic-suspected-of-offending-turkish-president-erdogan-1459965047), yes the same WSJ that attacks PDP now, has labeled it as 'freedom of press' before.

This time the climate is different. WSJ knowingly doctored antisemitism into a Pewdiepie mashup to prove their point.

Pewdiepie:

&gt;This originated from a video I made a couple of weeks ago. I was trying to show how crazy the modern world is, specifically some of the services available online. I picked something that seemed absurd to me-That people on Fiverr would say anything for 5 dollars.

[Business Insider:](https://www.businessinsider.de/pewdiepie-anti-semitism-jokes-controversy-explained-2017-2?r=US&amp;IR=T)

&gt;Using the website Fiverr, Kjellberg hired two men to make a sign that said "Death to All Jews." Fiverr enables users to hire freelancers to perform tasks for $5. Kjellberg says this was a joke meant to point out how you could use the internet to get people to do anything for a relatively low amount of money.

Edit: He who downvoted, show me factual errors please or stop using reddit. It's not a feel button.

&gt; Your perception of "everywhere" is laughably myopic.

Not mine.

&gt; Stop hanging with the wrong people. There is a huge world outside of that rotten web swamp.

Which happens to pay the bills, thank you very much.

But if you want to print your invoice on your customers printer after rendering remote services... It could serve useful?

It's good, but doesn't beat [Yahoo Serious](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yahoo_Serious).

No expert would ever write such a map definition. Have you ever done anything complicated? 

Later you talk about business, but what production system with how much traffic designed and implemented just by you (so, no other people bullshit) with what historical availability have you implemented that made a business millions or billions? 

If the answer is zero, why the fuck are you wasting our time?

That's the third part of the article.

That's just how the patent process works at big companies. You meet with a lawyer or two to talk about a whole bunch of ideas, then follow up to help create diagrams for those concepts. Minimum 6-12 months later they file. Additionally, you provide some related work or prior art, but the lawyers do their own review to find stuff. They tell you whether they think it's patentable and file.

Keep in mind, it's not like this person's work expresses every kind of interactive book design, so there are still novel ideas that might be included in such a patent and outside of the scope discussed.

Assuming bad intentions for a product with such a limited market seems ridiculous... Like why would these few people screw this researcher over? Presumably they would still have wanted to hire him in the future, which is worth way more money...

I might agree if it meant writing zero SQL, but that's not the case. You still have to interact with the underlying RDBMS, so you might as well leverage its strengths.

Maybe try adding a small amount of reflectivity to the walls, that will soften the edges and allo the light to slightly wrap around corners? Looks good.

That app sucks.

ILMerge is a .net thing that most .net people would be familiar with.

Generally the only interaction is in pulling or pushing data, though - not doing discrete math or boolean operations.

I think there is a natural divide somewhere, and it's entirely possible where my natural divide is differs from someone else's - and I'm quite sure it differs massively on the need. A financial system can probably do 4-5 times more in SQL than the stupid inventory control systems I've worked on.

Are you using a graphics library or game engine or is everything from scratch/STL libraries?

Quick disclosure, I work for Telerik.

\&gt;  Telerik's main function seems to be helping bad developers keep their .NET blinders  

1. Someone already pointed this out, but Razor Components isn't a Telerik product. It's something we've had overwhelming requests to support.

2. You are really sharing personal bias instead of facts. I'm not sure what was demonstrated as a "shameless clone of Bootstrap". But, we have products for pure Angular, React, and native iOS and Android apps (via NativeScript) all of which are for non-.NET developers. NativeScript is actually quite cool, try it out at [play.nativescript.org](https://play.nativescript.org) and tell me that's not cool ;)

3. Boostrap is great, it's helped developers establish a baseline for UI. However it lacks in rich UI features like Data Grids, Schedulers, Spreadsheets, Office interoperability, a11y, localization, etc. These are features that line of business developers need to be successful. They benefit by getting everything from a single source of: docs, APIs, stylesheet, and most of all support with 24hr response from the engineers who built the software.

I realize not everyone has a need for these tools, some devs "don't use frameworks", or have had bad experiences with [ASP.NET](https://ASP.NET) WebForms, but share feedback based on real experience that we can take a call to action.

I lost all respect for ARM when they published their 'Get The Facts' campaign on RISC-V

I can do stuff in SQL with a few lines of code that would take 50 to 100, minimum, if I need to do it in the program. 

Poorly written code is poorly written code, regardless of the language. And I've cleaned up my fair share of shitty SQL.  But it's a pretty rare occasion that I end up thinking that doing it in SQL was the more difficult choice.

Step one: avoid ~~all~~ most articles from medium.com (this one is at *least* decent, from skimming).

&gt; has the technical capability to make secure products

Any product that encourages users to blindly accept new keys from already-trusted contacts is not only not secure itself but also harms general public perception of secure practices.

Get back to me when Signal un-removes the ability to backup/restore/migrate keys and messages.

&gt; Meanwhile, in two weeks the entire Haskell ecosystem will adapt.

That was a good laugh :D

Not so well versed in the community to actually judge, but I can imagine the theory-love there to be strong enough to jump on the most obscure cutting edge idea with demonstrated benefits.

&gt; Be careful, however, of jumping the gun on such refactorings. Wait until these apparently-common subsystems are in a stable state - i.e. not having new features added - or you might end up forcing commonality where there really isn't any, or missing future duplication that should be refactored into a common place.

As I was reading your comment this is **exactly** what was going through my head, so I'm really glad to see the caveat.

things that look similar aren't always similar, it's such a simple idea that takes backing yourself into a corner a few times before you start respecting it.

Ohhh I understand now, thanks for enlightening me.

I personally really dislike using implementation inheritance for that reason.  I'll use it, but I'm generally very very careful about doing so for exactly the reasons you stated.

JSON, you just dont create or consume it using any of Crockford's tools.

I do work with financial stuff. And will grant that our opinions are heavily influenced by our experiences. 

I don't know how well you know SQL, but in my case it kind of took until I knew "enough" SQL to really see the advantages of using it as much as possible.

lmao you're an idiot, that's not how college works

That's how regulatory capture happens. Even under the most benign circumstances, if lawmakers rely on us for knowledge of how our systems work, the laws they make will reflect our biases.

But then do you expect lawmakers to regulate something they're ignorant of and still get maximum benefit from it?

I don't agree with the libertarians but I see where they're coming from. They're the ones who see this dilemma and say "A strange game. The only winning move is not to play."

This feels like the epitome of follower culture. 

Random dude wastes his time and effort and uses it to advertise business for a person that probably didn't even pay him to do it.

Now that I think about it... Maybe not so uncommon nowadays.

I would venture to guess that, by volume, the majority of people with github accounts are not "serious" developers. A lot of people there who take a few tutorials, build a buggy to-do app, and then feel entitled to spew their garbage, unreasoned opinions all over the place.

I mean, just look at the comments and requests on any major repo. There are people who barely seem qualified to use the project, let alone contribute to it, making absurd demands and leaving entitled/insulting feedback.

It's a general problem in the industry right now. Too many people who think that knowing how to write buggy JS makes them a tech genius.

Eh I've fired stuff up to print at home from the office before.  Usually over VPN or Google Cloud Print tho. Never trusted those built-in services.

I have put a lot of work during my free time writing a real app, it may be shitty, but at least it is not a collection of links.

&amp;#x200B;

Yes i'm bitter.

[UTF-9 and UTF-18](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4042) are even better!

Want excellent free coding tutorials? Borrow books from your local library. Video tutorials are terrible medium. And if you think that you learn better from videos anyway, that sucks, because pretty much all video tutorials are awful. For instance, the Java tutorial recommended here starts by explaining all the keywords in the language, one by one. Seriously? That's a pedagogical train wreck if you ask me.

Edit: Most books are terrible too, so don't just pick one at random. ;)

Interesting, i'm the opposite. I can do in c# much easier, clearer, and extensible than anything I can do in Sql, beyond basic grouping, sums, etc.

How about they fix the broken security model?

&gt;  I'm not going to change my mind, you can bet on that.

You seem to be convinced it's a good thing to say things like that.

Being closed minded is not a good quality in software engineering.

Wtf does that mean

You really need to work on your sense of humor.

This is the obvious way of handling Unicode -- and something Microsoft should have done back in the 90's.  It could have been in the original Windows 95!

Think of all the trouble everybody could have been spared if the byte-oriented Windows API understood UTF-8!  It already understood single-byte encodings and various other multi-byte encodings -- but not UTF-8 :(

My man!

Paper Cartridge: Please load "letter" sized paper (8.5" by 11" standard paper)

I mean, unless the devs are all Australian, why should they? Surely no country thinks it can regulate open source.

You wouldn't literally write that since any programming language is going to interpret that as a recursive definition/have trouble inferring the types, and if there are multiple layers of mapping, I generally just do it inline because it doesn't come up that often, but I've certainly written functions that have at least 3 levels of mapping.

What kind of moron would have a single person design and implement a system worth millions or billions on their own? And in what way is that at all relevant to something as low level as design patterns in code, which are microarchitectural decisions?

I have a similar one called [Synthwave from hell](https://open.spotify.com/user/lebchen/playlist/4oqjKQUMRw72XPeZhDyGOi?si=OFr2zJ72RVqTBu-RTysNfQ). 🤓 👿

I'm not usually a big spruiker for rust, but its standard library string implementation nicely disambiguates between these, with iterators over most of them.

RSA is like 4 lines of code in python

UTF-8 wasn't a thing when NT was being developed

From the tweet:

&gt; The name is still exclusionary (and as majority group members you don't get to argue with that).

Yeah, firstly, as a **minority** I think I'm going to argue all I want that *your* ideology is not *my* ideology and I don't care what you think anyway.

Secondly, you seriously want people to keep quiet when they are told to keep quiet? Why did you complain about the complainers if you feel that complainers should shut up?

By your own logic, you should be shutting up too, 'cos now you're a complainer too.

Reddit yelled, "There you go!” HN gave a look of pleasant surprise. Russ Cox belted, “We got f*****g generics now.” And before Go 2 cut for release, ex-Golang committee chair, Robert Griesemer hugged the community &amp; said, “Y’all look so different.”

Using Linq?

Exactly!

Going to have a listen.
You cant have enough synthwave

First of all you would be wrong (which suggests you are inexperienced).

OK, so, you have not contributed anything meaningful to society. Thank you, that's all we wanted to hear.

Try to answer the fucking question directly. 

Morons that make billions do (to answer your question).

Please leave your frontdoor unlocked so the police can enter if something bad happens!

Folks engaging with the talk are actually making it worse. You can't argue with someone who didn't reason their way to their position. Folks saying static types can do all the things that Rich thinks his thing can do are arguing with a ghost.

Rich is a smart guy but like every other programmer is not a good student of our discipline. Everything he talks about has been worked out already: https://mobile.twitter.com/Hillelogram/status/1068934626813624320.

US are part of Five Eyes, so the idea they may have some support for this (either to directly exploit or use as precedence to implement their own laws domestically) holds some plausibility.

Also, anecdotally, a story: Pine Gap is a satellite ground station out in the middle of Australia, not far from Alice Springs. It's a joint effort between Australian intelligence services and American services, with funding part coming from the CIA and NRO. The buildings on site have rooms sectioned off for staff of the two nations. The Americans have been notorious for being present in spaces supposedly restricted for Australian personnel only.

At least in Java, your first two examples wouldn't be valid overrides, because their parameters and return types don't match.

I don't know how C# or other languages handle it.

yeah, I wouldn't complain to anyone about a lack of indexes in the DB unless there were performance problems.

The whole node to Go migration just never made sense to me. Like how do you  go from web server/browser programming to a systems programming language?

Reminder that this is the same Australia whose very own Prime Minister once said: "The laws of mathematics are very commendable, but the only law that applies in Australia is the law of Australia"

https://www.telegraph.co.uk/technology/2017/07/14/malcolm-turnbull-says-laws-australia-trump-laws-mathematics/

They literally don't know what they're doing.

That's exactly how it works idiot. No one forces you to pay for credits.

Are you saying that people who complain about people who complain about complainers are even worse?

Well, it would be. Punycode's environment is far more limiting. The printable subset of 7-bit ASCII is `[\x20-\x7e]` (i.e. every letter, number and symbol on a standard US keyboard), while hostnames, which Punycode is designed for, only allow the characters `[a-z0-9-]`.

You can emulate this easily enough with a builder:

    new WindowBuilder().width(100).height(200).build()

`while(win==false)`
🤬

You could at least read the article before making a bullshit argument with nothing to back it up.

The .NET Framework has had built in JSON support, via [`JavaScriptSerializer`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.web.script.serialization.javascriptserializer?view=netframework-4.7.2) since .NET 3.5 (which came out in 2007).

It's just not very extensible compared to Json.NET, so everyone uses that instead.

&gt;Being closed minded is not a good quality in software engineering.

Are you not the  one rejecting Ada while clearly knowing very little about it?

Famous for being famous. Kind of like whatshername with the huge butt that did a sex video.

Wait, Fascism is just corporations getting in bed with the government? That would mean that many countries have been fascist for ages now…

I was very confused about why this existed until I saw the date on the RFC.

Anyone that argues either all stored procedures or all in code is hurting themselves. Both are tools and that have  strengths and weaknesses. To create stored procedures for simple queries doesn't make sense, to retrieve a million rows from a database to aggregate data for departments is equally as stupid...your job as a developer is to determine which tool to use for each problem.

&gt; and something Microsoft should have done back in the 90's.

The reason MS and Java use UCS2 is because that's all that existed when Unicode was added to them. However if you're saying "UTF-8 should have been added before UCS2, because it's a blindly obvious and backwards compatible extension of ASCII" then you're 100% correct ;)

What part of higher order functions are you missing in Dart? You can declare argument types to be functions nested as deeply as you like. E.g., its perfectly fine and typesafe (though quite silly) to write:

    int Function(int) foo(int Function(int Function(int)) bar) {
        return (int x) =&gt; x + bar((int y) =&gt; y + 1);
    }

in which case foo.runtimeType is (((int) =&gt; int) =&gt; int) =&gt; (int) =&gt; int

XD XD XD

&gt;paranoia and all

To be fair, a '*healthy*' paranoia is damn near mandatory for any sort of security development.

God I’m light years away from creating anything like this but it’s remarkable I love the illusion its a cool way to have a 3D effect going on. So sick man what did you write this in

LOL. You web kiddies are so funny.

[I wrote a long comment about this a month ago which I'm just going to link here.](https://www.reddit.com/r/ProgrammerHumor/comments/9rd9m1/whenever_i_have_to_crosscompile_code_from_windows/e8gl5a3/)

Don't worry; it's not exactly original here. I remember reading this term at least months ago.

&gt; And honestly I didn't know this whole crap was included in IMAP.

The reason a lot of old crap still exists is because SMTP and IMAP are still going strong and they like to pretend it's still 1977.

I moved from dev to manager for about a year and then back again.

Management is just not for me. Much happier as a dev. Happy to be a tech lead, just not happy as management.

Will have a look, cheers!

I like T-SQL, but SQL is very bad if you want to reuse code. Because it has a performance impact or the language simply doesn't make it possible.

I can't fathom how someone who's worked with UTF-7 can then state:

&gt;ASCII with unicode encoding is way better.

(Which implies that a) "unicode encoding" is a single thing and that b) UTF-7 isn't an unicode encoding...

Don’t be so sure Open Source = automatically secure. Take a look at these: http://www.underhanded-c.org 
 
It’s easy for smart people to hide vulnerabilities in plain sight.

Thanks for your perspective. The other comments here only go to prove, if proof were needed, the scale of the problem we have in our industry.

Cool. I am actually already one of the 113.000 followers on the list you shared, is it yours?

It will be! I'm aiming to have the game fully done by around the end of the month. I'll be sure to update you when it's done - I'm going to post the game itself up on itch and the code on GitHub. I've already got the itch page ready: https://s0lly.itch.io/dungeons-and-flagons

Overall, I agree: developers need to treat databases as more than just a dummy terminals for CRUD cycles.

The only thing in the article to be wary of is using `group_concat`: aggregate functions often have unobvious limits based on configuration/environment and their output can be truncated, causing difficult to find bugs.

An expansion of "Do the math in SQL" is "create derived values in SQL".  This can be anywhere from `concat(first_name, ' ', last name) AS full_name` to calculating `sale_price` from `regular_price` and `discount`.  The database can usually do these things more efficiently than application code looping over the query result.

I was studying Ada 20 years ago in college, and I still know quite a bit about it today. And I keep studying new languages on a weekly basis today.

You, on the other hand, pride yourself in knowing only one language and you somehow convinced yourself it's a good thing and that you will never change your mind about that.

Who do you think of us is the most closed minded?

RedoxOS can't come soon enough

"Won't"  Can't means it's physically impossible.  With programming all things are possible. 

You won't... and you shouldn't.

&gt;more privacy friendly US laws

I did not expect those words in this combination… The US has terrible privacy! I can't believe Australia is actually doing *worse*…

Just using lines really, (i.e. y = mx + c), nothing more. I'll probably do some kind of blog on the approach at some point, might be a fun exercise.

Trying to leave Australia for a place with less draconian / orwellian laws... but i'm also in I.T. who's gonna employ me in light of the #aaBill ... Frustrating.

My thoughts exactly. Still debating on where to take this! Cheers!

Way to get triggered! You do realize that England &amp; China and now Australia are far less concerned with a citizen privacy than the US. Trump has nothing to do with this.

You guys are massive pricks.

LLVM hasn't really been a VM for a long time.

I'm using the Chili Framework which is a relatively barebones (read: amazingly awesome) approach that let's you pump individual pixels to the screen (and simplifies other small things e.g. keyboard capture and sound) but leaves everything else up to you. Great for learning, which is what I'm doing (or trying to do!!). So, the rest of the code from there is my own. Edit: this is in C++.

I agree, and do not know why you are being downvoted.

Imho Vue is inferior to Angular. 

&amp;#x200B;

You're talking about AngularJS which has NOTHING to do with Angular.

Don't think any special keyboard can ever accommodate their operators diarrhea

Only problem is that React is dated.. doesn't use Typescript per default, doesn't use Observables but uses Promises.. and so on and so on.

&amp;#x200B;

Don't even get me started on JSX

&gt; You, on the other hand, pride yourself in knowing only one language and you somehow convinced yourself it's a good thing and that you will never change your mind about that.

Excuse me? Please quote exactly where I said that I only know one language?

You seem to have a habit of basing your arguments on notions which are either demonstrably false, or for which you are unable to provide a shred of evidence for. 

I really have no intention to discuss this topic any more with you, it is a waste of time.

This only applies if it's supposed to be a shadow and not what the character can see from their position. In the latter case you only need to cast the shadow from one point since it's not like there is a penumbra or diffusion when you're looking past a wall, there's a hard boundary between what you can and can't see.

No not mine, stumbled upon it a few weeks ago in another subreddit

Cheers! I did this in C++. I always thought making games was impossible even though I really wanted to do it.

Then I found a few videos online earlier this year that just blew my mind, and showed me that it just requires some patience and a bit of time and you can do some really cool stuff with not that much code. I can point you to some of that if you'd be interested, happy to help!

black mirror vibes af, I'll bet on apple staying around with a secure phone tho

I can't see it. I only see walls. #wallsnotshadows

That's only because the hard part (modular exponentiation) is taken care of by a library.

I aim to explore this interesting effect a bit more ;p

What are you talking about? Encryption where an unnecessary 3rd party holds the key is way weaker, just because the most likely way for it to be broken is for them to give the key away or lose it somehow.

&gt; The function must return the input list or a subset of it. This is because nothing about the type variable a is known. More a's cannot be made out of thin air.

The output list is consists of potentially infinitely many copies of values from the input list. It can also repeat values in the input list. 

When we finally get them, with linear types you'd be able to know that it is a permutation of the input.

Also, HR and recruiting toss around many terms they don't understand and impose ridiculous requirements such as "10 years of progressive web app experience".

I added this correction to the post.

Also, I changed the term "zero cost" to "zero overhead" from your link. Thanks again.

They can include the governments key in the conversation as a participant right?

End-to-end, with spy inserted by your own client.

Thank you for this compliment. 

Actually, I recently moved blog from static Jekyll on github to medium.
I don't want to handle GDPR, typography, and browser bugs anymore.

sometimes it just can't work. I'm working on my own privacy-focused encrypted chat over at https://emberclear.io and it's just not possible to add a backdoor without it being _really_ obvious that private keys are getting shipped somewhere

&gt; blindly obvious

Only in hindsight. At the time it was seen as incredibly clever, verging on dangerously complicated.

Interesting, I knew that the USA was imperialist throughout its history, but didn't know that it was fascist for all that time too

I know SQL like i know a lot of languages, just enough to do the hacky fixes i needed to put out the fires thrust in my face.

So it appears i need to break out some manuals... 😑

Any complexity problem is always described as it's "worse case scenario".

would they just be a thin ... underbelt at that point?

Hmm, technically it's not correct because we have two eyes sperated some distance from each other. So even if it is not strictly a soft transition, it's not really a perfectly sharp line.

Symptoms of bad code, images don't resize for mobile so I horizontal scroll all over the place.

Problem is, there are competing standards for this. Mentioned in the article is the string escape syntax with `\u`, there is also [Quoted-Printable](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quoted-printable) and [Punycode](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Punycode)

&gt; They can block the platform inside the country. 

They won't.

This whole thing is about low-hanging fruit. They want to decrypt all the plebs on major vendors platforms.

They don't care how many fish go uncaught so long as more fish are in the big-data nets.

&gt; Look at matrix.org/riot.im. Those are open source projects (GPL v3 I believe), they build a framework for encrypted communication for individuals, teams, groups

If your application does group encryption then government can likely demand you insert their key as participant. Given you can then remove it again and compile your own version.

&gt; you can never put a backdoor in something like that because it will be forked

Yeah, once again they'll ignore and instead hit Apple, Google and Facebook for ordinary citizens data. People they can pressure with money.

That's another line for a tshirt TBH.

It is an *abstract machine*, which is a synonym for a VM. But since the dumber part of the population is often getting confused by what does VM mean, they had to explain that LLVM does not stand for a "low level virtual machine", just to force the stupid ones to shut up.

I know, I just felt the need to explain.

&gt; They seem to be based on fear/bias instead of fact.

Or maybe I don't trust WhatsApp because the founder left the company to help build an actually secure messaging app - Signal.

Not actually relevant. The work in question wasn't created during a period of employment with Google, but at a time prior to an interview with the company.

Based on another comment here, it may have been to do with work google was already working on. Regardless, the writer of the article seems to have dealt with it the way it's supposed to be handled, by documenting instances of prior art and getting that documentation submitted to the patent office.

It can't be proven that Whatsapp's implementation wasn't tampered with. It's proprietary software, after all. And chances are always against the user, which is the real potential victim here.

For the curious this sprng is entirely math based no if statements or loops are used, just tell it the coordinates and seed and it will reliably provide you with a consistent value between 0 and 1, it's probably not the fastest thing in the world, especially with larger chunks but it gets the job done. The function is written in pure javascript. in total I've put in about 9 hours of work into it. Most resources on this topic go way over my head in terms of mathematics so this was all basically figured out on the spot

They've done much worse in other countries.  They'll remove anything if it helps their bottom line.

Slide 226 is incorrect.

Unless you're working in an embedded hard-realtime situation or other specific situation like BIOS boot code most modern CPUs have a cache so optimising for moving a word between memory and CPU doesn't exactly make sense because you move to the cache first and on x86 it's basically promised by most manufacturers for multithreading purposes to operate on the cache in 128 bit chunks not on 32 bit chunks. I should note SSE instructions require(d) 16 byte alignment. In many cases packing stuff tightly can be faster because even if the unaligned loads and stuff are inefficient the overall reduction in memory use is faster. I feel this is mostly a legacy thing and it's debatable if you design a new architecture in 2018 whether or not you should have alignment like this although having alignment restrictions can probably let you do a few more tricks. Regardless, all the existing instruction sets are designed around alignment though so that's what C needs to do.

It's true, but can they do anything about Google or Apple having been ordered to backdoor or screen capture the phone on which signal is installed? That is what these laws are really about.

On x86, there are assembly instructions that have multiple opcode mappings, so it's not really 1:1

&gt; they cannot ask Signal to compromise the service for all users, it has to be specific to the target

Not exactly. The compromise can be global and the collection targeted. The rest becomes *"incidental collection"* and goes straight to NSA data-centres. Allowing for collection on US citizens by a FiveEyes partner.

So long as the weakness can't be exploited by others.

If the weakness is *"We simply inserted government keys into the conversation"* then it's still encrypted and still secure far as the lawyers will be concerned.

Hello World!

&gt; reflects a lack of understanding behind cryptography. 

Oh they know what they're doing. They've been directed.

&gt; in the nation

Anywhere Australia puts a server. i.e. On a fibre split in the US of A.

&gt;  for some unstated purpose

To collect everyones data.

&gt; I am of the opinion that Australia no longer wants to rely on 5 eyes

This whole thing is absolute an integral part of FiveEyes. This is at the request of the US intelligence services.

Incidental collection on US citizens by Australia. "Lawful"

Demo is pretty shitty TBH

Everyone in this thread is talking about the problems with stored procedures, but this article makes no mention of using stored procedures. The logic shouldn't be inside your RDBMS, but it should be in your query.

Which is why I said AngularJS...

Sorry about that. Just pushed a fix to make it more tolerable.

Why use makefiles when go already has a build system of its own?

Not related to programming

Having fun? 😁

There's circumstances where SQL string manipulation is *fine*, but it is easy to essentially hard code part of your UI into SQL statements. Take this example:    

       select FIRST_NAME||' '||LAST_NAME as NAME from person where [..something..]      

This seems harmless on the surface. You create a method in a service layer that returns names given certain conditions, return it, and display it on the front end.    

But suddenly the requirements evolve. They want a user selectable drop down to show the names as either [FIRST, LAST], or [LAST, FIRST] ordering. Now you have a choice to make:       

 - Do you rewrite the entire pipeline to send back the individual name components      
 - Do you hack it, string split on ' ', and then re-order     

If you had just mapped 1:1 from the table's columns into a Dto and then written a single line at the UI layer to format it this would be a five minute job. But you did it in SQL, consolidated data, and now either you have a fragile hack OR have to re-write everything to support the columns you should have supported originally.   

Plus any code written that returns this consolidated column cannot be re-used for updates, since you lack the source data for the individual columns. You've created a SQL statement with poor re-use. This often results in solutions (and I've seen this in the wild *often*) having multiple almost duplicate queries, one per flavor of the week string formatting.   

PS - Just want to reiterate the very first thing I said: **There's circumstances where SQL string manipulation is *fine***. The example this article uses is likely an anti-pattern however.

I corrected the first part.

Adding your keys to a conversation is not a vulnerability or weakness.

It's using encryption how it's intended. Only with the addition of an unwanted 3rd party.

It's the frontdoor.

Bitch lasagna

Literally 10x better. Thanks dude

This isn't the right place for your low effort joke.

Please go to /r/ProgrammerHumor

&gt; I wonder how quickly they’ll start rolling some of laws back.

Australia will happily cut off it's nose to spite it's face if US partners demand it.

The wedge is never withdrawn only pushed in deeper.

Indeed :)

&gt; All this does is demolish privacy for normal people.

As intended.

Why didn't they just use Valgrind?

Definitely joking.  2 reasons: (1) He seems pretty astute from his post history, and (2) I hope he's joking.

It will be. They'll insert government keys into every conversation.

Sure you can. People can be forced to do all sorts of things. Like stay in a crappy field like this.

&gt; That makes it very difficult to circumvent,

You simply add the governments key. Done.

It's the frontdoor, there is no vulnerability or compromise.

LOL

Well we take whatever wins we can. Some people are trying to run non-HTML/CSS frameworks in the browser but that is much harder problem.

The old Cisco VPN client is past end of life and is not supported.  You should be using their AnyConnect client now.  The Deterministic Network Enhancer was a part of the old EOL VPN client and isn't in the AnyConnect client.  Permissions can also be set to allow access to certain printers to everyone, not just domain users. Your example only applies to organizations that think that they can run old unsupported software and hardware forever.

Frontdoor is not a weakness or vulnerability, it's using encryption as intended and passes those tests.

He was joking.  :)

Why this picture?

What would be bad about this? pointless balkanization holds us all back. 

&amp;#x200B;

If it is "law", what else is there to pass? Wind?

The only thing left to happen now, is for the Australian intelligence agencies to take advantage of this law, and for the industry to respond to it.

Since the JVM is BE, I would assume it uses UTF-16BE...

There's a handy String method that returns an IntStream of codepoints so you don't have to worry about multi-codeunit UTF-16 sequences. Discovering that made "character" at a time string processing in Java so much nicer. Wonder if there's something similar for graphemes (Edit: There's always java.text.BreakIterator... not sure if there's a way to turn one of those into a Stream though)

It'll work just fine. They'll get a lot more data and the algos will enjoy that data.

They don't care how much data is missed. This is for low-hanging fruit on normal people.

Certainly. 90% of the time I see an article on medium it's trash, but there are exceptions to this rule, and my initial reaction wasn't correct.

Thanks for providing something decent

With a small database, you can get away with this.  Procs can be very convenient.  Easy to change, easy to process large sets of data at once, no data transfer penalties to external servers, etc.

With a huge databases with many simultaneous users. doing processing in procs can become a bottleneck.  Databases really are not meant to do heavy processing.  The CPU usage and temporary I/O for worktables becomes a big bottleneck.

We used to use stored procs heavily, but we found that doing heavy processing outside of the database is much more scalable and much less expensive on database hardware requirements and software licensing (for a commercial database solution).

There he would be hung for using Java for Windows

Not sure whether you are serious.

It could work; it's just that nobody paid someone to make it work. 

Emacs is fast enough for many core operations; it's all the custom Emacs Lisp written by amateurs that are the core of the references issue.

You know what, thank you. 

I first learned coding in high school with basic. 

I joined the Marines as a tank crewman so the past 14 years haven’t given me much work experience with coding/programming (I’m sure there are HUGE differences between those two terms) but I have screwed around with a little bit of various types of coding in my free time

The one area where I have actually applied my programming knowledge is in excel. In the Marine Corps, every job becomes an office job of you get promoted high enough and most Marines aren’t very good at office work. 

I have spent a lot of time setting up excel documents to perform repetitive data entry and automate calculations. I have this one pet project that I have been working on for about 3 years and I am about to release it to everyone with my same job because I think it will help them a lot. 

I know excel is the butt of many jokes in the programming community. It certainly can’t do as many different things as most programming languages, but a huge percentage of people have excel and, on government computers at least, it is much easier to share an excel doc than to get the network admins to approve a new software. 

And I also think that the same skill set that programs take pride in is 100% applicable to excel.

You're dreaming. The world is going on as if nothing has changed.

How is it in Python? Curious how this works across various languages. Thanks for posting an interesting article OP.

Everyone is flocking to leave China right?

Market speaks, if there is bucks to be made there is bucks to be made.

The negative push-back from this will be negligible.

I thought the first was when you got tired of supporting it and the second when it's discovered the new maintainer put malware inside.

The answer is simple:

www.

...wouldn't it be more efficient to serve a static readme that's only updated when a new version of a package is released?

You are now alone.

Unfortunately right now the tyranny of JavaScript is still dominating.

What? it clearly says Yanny.

CSS is great, except for the recent clusterfucks such as adding variables and shit that shouldn't be in it.

Oh, it's definitely preferable if we can all use a single good encoding. It's just something that happens.

I know you!

You are supposed to be dead, you monty python sketch you.

I couldn't find anything else like it that seemed trust-worthy online, so I coded this up myself.

With this, people can encrypt text messages  that only you can decrypt. Don't want to send a password/credit card  number as plaintext in an email? You can send an encrypted message with this instead.

Everything runs in pure  client-side javascript, so nothing you do on the webapp touches any server. (The entire website can run offline no problem)

Source code can be found [here](https://github.com/chausies/chausies.github.io/blob/master/js/encrypt.coffee).

Hope someone finds use for it.

&gt; those who genuinely believe that Javascript is a good language.

I think it is an awful language but you can, right now, do things that you
can not do with other languages, at the least not in the same way - 
in particular when it comes to the www.

Yes that’s what the rust code does, render them to static files, and bust the cache.

https://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_62_0/libs/parameter/doc/html/index.html

Thanks! Yeah, I thought the article was interesting. Programmers have a bias against Excel. Even the author of the article admits as much. It's a great starting point. I know Excel fairly well, and I eventually started learning advanced Excel. Now, I know VBA in Excel very well. (I may not be an *expert*, but I'm probably one or two steps below that.) 

I'm now learning *real* object-oriented programming in C# and boy, is it quite a change. But VBA in Excel was my starting point. I'll always be grateful for learning programming with it. Even if, as I'm learning more advanced concepts now, I'm starting to see the warts in the language.

&gt; Wouldn't people who program in language X make the same argument
&gt; for all other languages except language X?

No, because:

a) not every language is created equal. Some suck more than others do.
b) but most importantly, JavaScript being the monopoly that it holds over
the www is just terrible in the long run.

It only got big because the www is so important. There is no way around
the www.